UK military fears robots learning war from video games By Brian Wheeler 23 May 2018 Starcraft is a fast-moving strategy game played in real time Robots that train themselves in battle tactics by playing video games could be used to mount cyber-attacks, the UK military fears. The warning is in a Ministry of Defence report on artificial intelligence. Researchers in Silicon Valley are using strategy games, such as Starcraft II, to teach systems how to solve complex problems on their own. But artificial intelligence (AI) programs can then "be readily adapted" to wage cyber-warfare, the MoD says. Officials are particularly concerned about the ability of rogue states and terrorists to mount advanced persistent threat attacks, which can disable critical infrastructure and steal sensitive information. "Not only will AI increase the variety and tempo of cyber-attacks, it will also decrease the cost and increase the variety of actors able to undertake this activity," the report says. "As the requirement for skilled specialists involved in the attack diminishes, the limitation will become access to the AI algorithms needed to conduct such an attack. "In other words, any actor with the financial resources to buy, or steal, an AI APT (advanced persistent threat) system could gain access to tremendous offensive cyber-capability, even if that actor is relatively ignorant of internet security technology. "Given that the cost of replicating software can be nearly zero, that may hardly present any constraint at all. This is likely to be a live issue by 2020 or soon thereafter. "For example, the state-of-the-art AI is being trained in tactical reasoning by playing computer strategy games. "AIs like this could then be readily adapted to drive APT cyber-attack tactics, where the AI is competing against human or non-adaptive automated cyber-defenders." The report cites Google's DeepMind artificial intelligence research project, which is using Starcraft II - a real-time strategy game for PC and Mac users, launched in 2010 - to train programs to think for themselves. London-based DeepMind, which says it is committed to making the world a "better place" through artificial intelligence, by solving complex problems such as climate change, has also used Atari and Go games to train its systems. But, like other artificial intelligence researchers, those at DeepMind were attracted to the complexity and fast-moving nature of Starcraft, which involves a three-way conflict between humans, the insectoid Zerg and Protoss aliens. Go player Lee Sedol pits his wits against Google's AI programme AlphaGo DeepMind said testing its artificial intelligence "agents" in games "that are not specifically designed for artificial intelligence research, and where humans play well" was "crucial" to their development. Starcraft players build bases to gather resources that help make combat units to seek out and destroy opponents. Other technology companies, including Facebook, have now developed artificial intelligence bots to play the game after makers, Blizzard Entertainment, released tools to enable them to do so. Human players trounced artificial intelligence bots made by Facebook, DeepMind and other companies in a Starcraft tournament in November, suggesting there is still some way to go before the robots take over. Steven Murdoch, an information security research fellow at University College London, said artificial intelligence bots with the ability to carry out sophisticated cyber-attacks on their own were "fairly far away". Even those that could play games, such as Go and Starcraft, against humans were "not very creative" and relied on following "a simple set of rules". "As technology advances, more automation will be available, particularly for the delivery of malicious software, but the preparation of attacks and development of tactics will still require human expertise for the foreseeable future," he told BBC News. AI programs could be stolen and misused, as the MoD says in its report, but current systems "are quite specific to a particular task and it takes considerable skill and expertise to adapt a system to a new application area," he added. The MoD report says the private sector is leading the way in artificial intelligence research - and the technology industry's reluctance to appear too close to defence or security agencies is creating a skills shortage in the military. "Some Western commercial entities have publicly declared policies stating they will not contract with defence or security agencies, which may compound the challenges facing the MoD," says the report. "This is in stark contrast to other states, which have enshrined access rights to expertise, technology and data in their national legislation." The report proposes setting up a register "of security cleared UK nationals with AI and robotics skills" to be called on in times of emergency.US charges 'China government hackers' 20 December 2018 The US justice department has indicted two Chinese men accused of hacking into the computer networks of companies and government agencies in Western countries. The pair are allegedly part of a "hacking group" known as Advanced Persistent Threat 10 , affiliated with China's main intelligence service. They have not been arrested. The US and UK have accused China of violating an agreement relating to commercial espionage. Zhu Hua and Zhang Shilong worked for a company called Huaying Haitai and in association with the Chinese Ministry of State Security, the US court filing says. The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) said that from at least 2006 until 2018, the two extensively hacked into computer systems with the aim of stealing intellectual property and confidential business and technological information from: The FBI said they had also hacked into US Navy computer systems and stolen the personal information of more than 100,000 personnel. FBI director Christopher Wray said the two men were at present "beyond US jurisdiction". 'Economic aggression' Announcing the unsealing of the indictments, US Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein said China had violated a 2015 agreement under which it had pledged to not engage in commercial cyber-spying. US Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein: "We want China to cease its illegal cyber activities" Mr Rosenstein said his department's move had been co-ordinated with US allies in Europe and Asia to rebuff "China's economic aggression". He added: "We want China to cease its illegal cyber activities." The UK government said it was joining allies in holding the Chinese government responsible for a global campaign targeting commercial secrets. UK Foreign Secretary Jeremy Hunt said: "This campaign is one of the most significant and widespread cyber intrusions against the UK and allies uncovered to date, targeting trade secrets and economies around the world. "These activities must stop. They go against the commitments made to the UK in 2015, and, as part of the G20, not to conduct or support cyber-enabled theft of intellectual property or trade secrets." Australia and New Zealand said they too held China responsible for the global hacking campaign and joined their "like-minded partners" in condemning the activity. 'Chinese hackers return' By Gordon Corera, security correspondent This is the latest salvo in Washington's attempt to pressure Beijing on a range of issues, with economic espionage one of the most high-profile. US and UK officials are reluctant to name the companies that have been hit but they say the economic damage has been significant. The hackers, officials say, work under the direction of China's Ministry of State Security - one of the country's intelligence organisations. "It is organised more like a corporation than a gang," one UK official says, adding that British intelligence has the highest level of confidence in their assessment of who was responsible. The UK and US believe China is breaking a 2015 agreement not to steal commercial data to help its companies. There was a dip in activity after the deal was signed (which followed a period of pressure by Washington, including the indictment of Chinese military hackers and the threat of sanctions). But US and UK sources both say that recently they have seen Chinese hackers return, now operating more stealthily, whereas in the past they were easier to spot. Where the US has been vocal in recent months, this is the first time the UK has spoken out - perhaps because it has been concerned about risking trade ties and getting pulled into the Trump administration's broader confrontation with Beijing. UK officials say they have raised the matter privately a number of times with Beijing over the last two years, including during the prime minister's visit earlier this year, and officials are keen to stress that they think the relationship with China is strong enough to allow them to address these issues without causing wider problems.Data-stealing spyware 'traced to Lebanon' 19 January 2018 Malware in messaging apps has been stealing data from activists, lawyers and military personnel A security bug that has infected thousands of smartphones has been uncovered by campaign group the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF). Working with mobile security firm Lookout, researchers discovered that malware in fake messaging designed to look like WhatsApp and Signal had stolen gigabytes of data. Targets included military personnel, activists, journalists and lawyers. Researchers say they traced the malware to a Lebanese government building. The threat, dubbed Dark Caracal by the researchers, looks as if it could come from a nation state and appears to use shared infrastructure linked to other nation-state hackers, the report said. The malware takes advantage of known exploits and targets mainly Android phones. Data was traced back to a server in a building belonging to the Lebanese General Security Directorate in Beirut, according to researchers. "Based on the available evidence, it is likely that the GDGS is associated with or directly supporting the actors behind Dark Caracal," the report said. Mobile threat "People in the US, Canada, Germany, Lebanon, and France have been hit by Dark Caracal. Targets include military personnel, activists, journalists, and lawyers, and the types of stolen data range from call records and audio recordings to documents and photos," said EFF director of cybersecurity Eva Galperin. "This is a very large, global campaign, focused on mobile devices. Mobile is the future of spying, because phones are full of so much data about a person's day-to-day life." Mike Murray, vice-president of security intelligence at Lookout said: "Dark Caracal is part of a trend we've seen mounting over the past year whereby traditional advanced persistent threat actors are moving toward using mobile as a primary target platform." Online mercenaries In a statement published on the Lookout blog, Google said it was confident that the infected apps were not downloaded from its Play Store. "Google has identified the apps associated with this actor, none of the apps were on the Google Play Store. Google Play Protect has been updated to protect user devices from these apps and is in the process of removing them from all affected devices." The researchers believe Dark Caracal has been operating since 2012 but it has been hard to track because of the diversity of seemingly unrelated espionage campaigns originating from the same domain names. Over the years Dark Caracal's work has been repeatedly misattributed to other cybercrime groups, the researchers said. In November, Afghanistan moved to ban WhatsApp and Telegram as a way to stop insurgent groups from using encrypted messaging. And in December, Iran moved to restrict use of the apps after a series of anti-establishment protests. Use of an app that can steal data would give nation states much more information than simply banning them, said Prof Alan Woodward, a cybersecurity expert at the University of Surrey. "It is always hard to prove that a nation state is involved. During the Cold War, countries made use of mercenaries and that's what we are seeing online now." He said it was unclear where the infected apps had been downloaded from. "Google is saying that they were not downloaded from there but it is difficult to know where else they came from. It may be that people are getting suckered into something that looks like an official site. People need to be careful what they are downloading."Russian hacker gang arrested over $25m theft 2 June 2016 The raids stopped the cyber thieves stealing a further 2.3bn roubles, the FSB said Russia has arrested 50 people accused of using malware to steal more than 1.7bn roubles ($25m; £18m). The gang allegedly seeded websites with malware that gave them access to victims' PCs and, from there, their bank accounts. Technical tricks used by the hackers made it hard for security software to spot the malicious code once it had compromised a machine. It is believed to be the largest ever arrest of hackers in Russia. The Russian authorities carried out raids in 15 regions across the country to round up the gang, the FSB internal security service said. "As a result of [house] searches a large quantity of computer equipment was confiscated along with communications gear, bank cards in false names, and also financial documents and significant amounts of cash confirming the illegal nature of their activity," the FSB said. The gang is believed to have stolen cash using a malicious trojan called Lurk that it hid on some of Russia's most popular websites. Remote access Anyone visiting a website booby-trapped with Lurk would be infected with the malware. Once on a victim's PC, the malware then downloaded more software modules, giving the cyber thieves remote access to the machine. This was used to steal login names and passwords for online bank accounts. In particular, they targeted accounts held at Sberbank - one of Russia's largest banks. "Lurk started attacking banks one-and-a-half years ago; before then its malicious program targeted various enterprise and consumer systems," said Ruslan Stoyanov, head of computer incident investigation at Kaspersky Lab that helped uncover the gang's activities. Mr Stoyanov said Kaspersky helped police profile the gang's network of computers and servers used to grab cash, and from that information they were able to trace the individuals involved. The Lurk gang targeted Sberbank, its clients and customers The arrests helped to thwart pending money transfers that would have netted the group a further 2.3bn roubles, the FSB said. Russian security firm Group IB, which profiles cyber crime groups in Eastern Europe, said the Lurk gang had been operating since 2011. The group initially went after clients of banks but had recently changed focus, said Group IB spokesman Victor Ivanovsky. "In recent months we have detected a growing activity in performing Advanced Persistent Threat (APT) attacks on Russian banks by the Lurk group," he said. Attacks that use APT techniques are typically the hardest to defend against because they are carefully customised for each target and can exploit formerly unknown vulnerabilities to get around security software. The Lurk group switched to APT-based attacks in early 2016 when the source code for the well-known Buhtrap malware was made public. The gang used Buhtrap to craft emails that looked like they came from industry groups that certify bank and accounting staff, in an attempt to trick people into opening messages containing Lurk.Cyber-attack: US and UK blame North Korea for WannaCry 19 December 2017 Attackers encrypted user's devices, and typically demanded a ransom of $300-600 in Bitcoin The US and UK governments have said North Korea was responsible for the WannaCry malware attack affecting hospitals, businesses and banks across the world earlier this year. The attack is said to have hit more than 300,000 computers in 150 nations, causing billions of dollars of damage. It is the first time the US and UK have officially blamed them for the worm. Thomas Bossert, an aide to US President Donald Trump, first made the accusation in the Wall Street Journal newspaper. Mr Bossert, who advises the president on homeland security, said the allegation was "based on evidence". He did not produce any evidence in the article, but said US findings concurred with judgments from other governments and private companies. He added that Australia, Canada, and New Zealand also share the US conclusion that North Korea was behind the attack. Following the interview, the UK Foreign Office also blamed "North Korean actors using their cyber programme to circumvent sanctions". The National Cyber Security Centre assessed that is "highly likely" that the North Korean Lazarus hacking group had committed the attacks, Minister for Cyber Lord Ahmad said in a statement . In May, Windows computers hit by the cyber-attack had their contents locked, with users asked to a pay a ransom to have their data restored. EU police body Europol called the scale of the attack "unprecedented". Why blame N Korea now? Analysis: Gordon Corera, BBC security correspondent Britain's National Cyber Security Centre, part of the GCHQ signals intelligence agency, first attributed the May 2017 Wannacry attack to North Korea within weeks of the ransomware spreading. The speed was because the UK led the international investigation after the National Health Service was hit hard. The US intelligence community may have taken longer to concur with that assessment but there is still the question of why the White House is only going public now. Governments used to be cautious about attribution in cyber attacks but it is becoming increasingly common - beginning with the claim North Korea was behind the attack on Sony in 2014 and more recently involving Russia's alleged hacking in the 2016 US election. This latest claim is almost certainly an attempt to put more pressure on North Korea in the crisis over its nuclear programme with the attempt to rally international support behind the notion that the country is a real danger - whether from cyber weapons or nuclear weapons. And to make the case that further action, of some kind, needs to be contemplated. Mr Bossert warned that "we will continue to hold accountable those who harm or threaten us" In the Wall Street Journal piece, Mr Bossert said North Korea must be held "accountable" and that the US would continue to use a "maximum pressure strategy" to hinder the regime's ability to mount cyber-attacks. He did not specify what action, if any, the US government planned to take in response to the findings. North Korea is already facing major economic sanctions after being redesignated a state-sponsor of terrorism last month amid tension over its nuclear programme and missile tests. "North Korea has acted especially badly, largely unchecked, for more than a decade, and its malicious behaviour is growing more egregious. WannaCry was indiscriminately reckless," Mr Bossert wrote. "As we make the internet safer, we will continue to hold accountable those who harm or threaten us, whether they act alone or on behalf of criminal organisations or hostile nations," he went on. "The tool kits of totalitarian regimes are too threatening to ignore." He added that Microsoft and Facebook both acted to disable North Korean cyber-attacks "on their own initiative last week, without any direction or participation by the US". Microsoft later issued a statement, saying that last week the company "working together with Facebook and others in the security community, took strong steps to protect our customers and the internet from ongoing attacks by an advanced persistent threat actor known to us as ZINC, also known as the Lazarus Group". "Among other steps, last week we helped disrupt the malware this group relies on, cleaned customers' infected computers, disabled accounts being used to pursue cyber-attacks and strengthened Windows defences to prevent reinfection," the statement said. WannaCry WhiteHouse briefing has started, here’s a thread. Nice they thanked Facebook, who weren’t involved, and not @MalwareTechBlog . https://t.co/To7OwdnxEb — Kevin Beaumont 🤨 (@GossiTheDog) December 19, 2017 View original tweet on Twitter However, some social media users said that - while crediting Microsoft and Facebook - Mr Bossert did not mention a UK security researcher who had "accidentally" halted the spread of the malicious software. The 22-year-old man, known by the pseudonym MalwareTech, managed to bring the spread to a halt when he found what appeared to be a "kill switch" in the rogue software's code. 'Unprecedented attack' In the UK, the National Health Service (NHS) was hit particularly hard by the cyber-attack, with 48 affected health trusts forced to turn many patients away for appointments and even surgeries. It spread across the world, with Russia reportedly being badly hit, causing problems to the country's postal service. North Korea has not yet responded to the US allegation In 2014, the US claimed North Korea were behind cyber-attacks on Sony Pictures , after it released a film featuring the fictional killing of its leader Kim Jong-un. The entertainment company had its films leaked and details of corporate finances and private emails released online. The North Koreans hit out at former president Barack Obama over the claim, but has not yet responded to the White House accusations about the WannaCry hack. In October it said rumours from a UK government minister that they were behind the 2017 attack was "groundless speculation" , and a "wicked attempt" to tighten international sanctions on the country.US military contractors 'hit by Chinese hackers' 18 September 2014 Chairman senator Carl Levin said the report had found evidence of many Chinese-based cyber-attacks Hackers associated with the Chinese government broke into the computers of airlines and military contractors over 20 times in a single year, according to the US Senate. The attacks were allegedly targeted at systems that move troops and equipment. They included breaking in to computers on a commercial ship and uploading malicious software on to an airline's computers, the Senate report alleged. Chinese officials denied the allegations. A year-long investigation was concluded in March, but the findings have only just been made public. In a 12-month period from June 2012, it found evidence of about 50 cyber-attacks on military contractors. Of those, 20 were attributed to "an advanced persistent threat", a term associated with attacks on governments. All were attributed to China. The report did not disclose the names of the affected contractors. "These peacetime intrusions into the networks of key defence contractors are more evidence of China's aggressive actions in cyberspace," senator Carl Levin, chairman of the committee, said. Chinese embassy officials in Washington questioned the report, calling the accusations "groundless". The row between China and the US over cyber-attacks has been a long-running one. The Chinese government has previously accused US spies of infiltrating its computer networks. In May the US government accused five Chinese military members of hacking into and stealing trade secrets from the computers of several large US companies. Clearinghouse The latest report revealed that officials had only been told about two of these incidents. It also found that US government agencies had failed to share the information about the attacks among themselves. This lack of transparency from contractors has raised questions and prompted calls for new procedures about how such hacks are reported. Senator Jim Inhofe, who sits on the committee, called for a central clearinghouse to make it easier for contractors to report suspicious cyber-activity. According to the report, contractors are only required to report network-level cyber-intrusions. Paul Dignan, from security firm F5 Networks, said: "A lot of attacks target end-users with malware so that they can piggyback on legitimate access to the network. "Firms use lots of security vendors but there are also lots of gaps and, without adequate integration, it is these gaps that will be exploited."Israeli Iron Dome firms 'infiltrated by Chinese hackers' By Joe Miller 31 July 2014 Israel's Iron Dome system is widely credited with preventing the deaths of Israeli civilians The BBC has seen evidence that appears to confirm hackers stole several secret military documents from two government-owned Israeli companies that developed the Iron Dome missile defence system. The breaches were first publicised by security blogger Brian Krebs on Monday. The companies denied their classified networks had been infiltrated. However, the team that discovered the incidents has given the BBC access to an intelligence report, which indicates hundreds of files were indeed copied. The documents, which were stolen over a period of many months, relate to: Cyber Engineering Services (CyberESI) tracked the activities of the hackers over eight months between 2011 and 2012. It said the data taken by the hackers suggested they had been after intelligence relating to Iron Dome. Iron Dome is a complex anti-missile defence system, which can intercept and destroy rockets and shells. The technology has been widely credited with preventing the deaths of many Israeli civilians during the ongoing conflict with militants from Gaza. CyberESI's report, compiled in 2013, also indicates the attacks were made using highly sophisticated tools resembling those used by Chinese hackers to infiltrate US defence firms - an attack in which the Chinese government denies any involvement. Former Israeli prime minister Ehud Olmert stands next to a Rafael missile "The data collected makes strong indications that the actors behind this attack originated from China," it says. "This assertion is based on the activity during the past year that Cyber Engineering Services has observed on compromised networks, as well as the geo-location of the IP [internet protocol] addresses retrieving the exfiltrated data." "The nature of exfiltrated data and the industry that these companies are involved in suggests that the Chinese hackers were after information related to Israel's all-weather air defence system called Iron Dome." Gigabytes stolen CyberESI, which operates out of Maryland in the US, monitored data being stolen from two leading Israeli defence contractors: A spokeswoman for IAI initially confirmed to Mr Krebs the attack had taken place and been "reported to the appropriate authorities". However IAI subsequently said the "information reported regarding the leakage of sensitive information is incorrect" and only its "civilian non-classified" network had been hacked. A spokesman for Rafael said the company did "not recall such an incident". The hackers allegedly took documents related to the Arrow missile But the report seen by the BBC suggests sensitive data was taken from IAI and that Rafael's network was compromised, with hackers able to deactivate security software and harvest authentication data, including passwords. In total, the report says, gigabytes of data were stolen from the Israeli companies, including: Some of the stolen technical documents are said by CyberESI to have contained intellectual property data and were marked as being controlled by US government International Traffic in Arms (ITAR) regulations. US connections Both IAI and Rafael were heavily involved in developing the Iron Dome missile defence system, which allows Israel to intercept rockets fired by Hamas from the Gaza Strip. The US, which already collaborates with Israeli firms over Arrow III - jointly designed by IAI and Boeing, now wants to invest in future versions of Iron Dome technologies. In May 2013, the Pentagon accused China of carrying out a sophisticated cyber-spying campaign on US diplomatic, economic and defence organisations. The raid on the Israeli companies bore similar characteristics, experts at CyberESI told the BBC, using tools that were "known to originate from" China. The attacks were part of an advanced persistent threat (APT) - a form of highly organised and targeted hacking. APTs have been used for industrial espionage in the past and tend to use sophisticated methods not easily available to the vast majority of cyber-thieves. The US wants to invest in future versions of Iron Dome technologies Executive emails stolen CyberESI's report also featured a third Israeli company, Elisra, originally a US company and now a leading supplier to the Israel Defense Forces (IDF). Elisra, which is not involved in Iron Dome, appears to have been comprehensively infiltrated by the hackers, who stole data from folders named "Military Spacs" and "UAV" and infiltrated the email accounts belonging to the chief executive and several senior managers. The attackers also stole passwords and sign-in details, allowing them to roam around the networks undetected. Elisra did not respond to a BBC request for comment. In January 2014, another security company reported that 15 Israeli defence computers had been compromised via a malicious email attachment.China condemns hacking report by US firm Mandiant 20 February 2013 The BBC's John Sudworth was detained while filming the reported hub of the hacking operation China's military says a report linking it to prolific hacking of US targets is flawed. In a statement, the Defence Ministry said the report lacked "technical proof" when it used IP addresses to link hacking to a military unit. The report identified a Shanghai high-rise used by the military as the likely home of a hackers to whom it attributed multiple attacks on US companies. The US says it has repeatedly raised concerns with China about cyber theft. The Chinese ministry statement, posted on its website, said that many hacking attacks were carried out using hijacked IP addresses. There was no clear definition of what constituted a hacking attack, it went on, and as it was a cross-border, deceptive business, it was hard to pin down where attacks originated. It suggested that the "everyday gathering" of online information was being wrongly characterised as spying. 'Cyber espionage' The detailed report, released on Tuesday by US-based computer security company Mandiant , looked at hundreds of data breaches, most of which it attributed to what it termed "Advanced Persistent Threat" actors. The details it had uncovered, it said, showed that these groups were based primarily in China and that the Beijing government was aware of them. The most prolific of these actors was APT1, Mandiant said, describing it as "one of the most prolific cyber espionage groups in terms of the sheer quantity of information stolen". The firm said it had traced the hacking activities of APT1 to a Shanghai building. Unit 61398 of the People's Liberation Army "is also located in precisely the same area" and the actors had similar "missions, capabilities and resources", it added. APT1, it said, was staffed by hundreds of proficient English speakers. It had hacked into 141 companies across 20 industries, stealing information including blueprints, business plans, pricing documents, user credentials, emails and contact lists. Spokesman Jay Carney said the White House was "aware" of the Mandiant report and its contents. While not commenting directly, he described cyber espionage as a "very important challenge". "We have repeatedly raised our concerns at the highest levels about cyber-theft with senior Chinese officials including in the military and we will continue to do so," he said. State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland, meanwhile, said that the issue came up "in virtually every meeting we have with Chinese officials". "We consider this kind of activity a threat not only to our national security but also to our economic interests and [we are] laying out our concerns specifically so that we can see if there's a path forward," she said. China has long been suspected of a role in cyber hacking. But the issue has become more high-profile in recent months following widely reported hacks into media outlets including the New York Times - in that case apparently linked to a report by the paper on the wealth of relatives of outgoing Premier Wen Jiabao. The Chinese Defence Ministry statement pointed out that China was also a victim of hacking attacks. A Global Times editorial accused the US and its major allies of hyping up a China hacking "threat". "China should refute the allegations of US company Mandiant with authoritative reports from its technology sector," it said. "As a long-term counter-measure, China needs to encourage those institutions and individuals who have been subject to cyber-attacks from US IP addresses to stand up and tell the world what happened to them."Government 'may have hacked IMF' 13 June 2011 A spear-phishing attack is likely to have kick started the breach Hackers who broke into the International Monetary Fund's computer system may have been backed by a nation state, according to security experts. They point to the sophisticated nature of the attack and the resources needed to develop it. Malicious software, designed to steal confidential files, was installed on at least one IMF computer. Although government involvement is widely suspected, the IMF has not released enough details to be sure. Digital insider Based on the limited information made public, it appears that the attack came from a specific PC that had been deliberately infected. Hacker software was likely to have been installed on it in what is known as a spear-phishing attack, which sees highly targeted scam e-mails sent to specific victims. A memo circulated internally at the IMF reported that "suspicious file transfers" had been detected. Tom Kellerman, a security expert who has worked for the IMF and now sits on the board of the International Cyber Security Protection Alliance told Reuters news agency that it was "a targeted attack" with code written specifically to give a nation state a "digital insider presence" on the IMF network. Graham Titherington, a security analyst with research firm Ovum agreed with the nation state theory. "Any attack that shows money, time and resources went on it points to a state attack. States and their intelligence agencies have far more resources than criminal gangs," he said. The information held by the IMF would clearly be most valuable to a country, he added. "It has masses of economic information from the performance of countries to the state of their balance sheets. For countries deciding where to invest it is invaluable," he said. State-sponsored hacking has gained prominence in recent months. "Google shifted the debate by going public on a hack attack believed to be by China," said Mr Titherington. The Chinese government has denied involvement in the recent attack on Google's e-mail accounts. The incident compromised the personal Gmail accounts of hundreds of top US officials, military personnel and journalists. Google said that the campaign to obtain passwords originated in the Chinese city of Jinan and was aimed at monitoring e-mail. According to Mark Darvill, director of security firm AEP Networks, many countries are involved in cyber espionage but China remained at the "forefront". "China has recently set up a cyber terrorism unit which is very likely to be looking at opportunities rather than to stop attacks," he said. Convenient excuse Not everyone is convinced that state-sponsored attacks or Advanced Persistent Threat (APTs) are the cause of the IMF hack. Tal Be'ery, a web researcher at security firm Imperva said it could be a "convenient excuse". "It is easier for organisations to hide under this excuse when really it is something lacking in their defences. "We don't have enough credible information about the IMF attack. It needs to provide good evidence that it was a APT. It is just as likely to be a lone hacker acting out of curiosity," he said. The most high profile state-sponsored attack to date remains the Stuxnet worm, which targeted Iran's nuclear facilities. Experts believe the complex malicious code originated from either the Israeli or US governments.China military unit 'behind prolific hacking' 19 February 2013 The BBC's John Sudworth was detained while filming the reported hub of the hacking operation A secretive branch of China's military is probably one of the world's "most prolific cyber espionage groups", a US cyber security firm has said. Mandiant said Unit 61398 was believed to have "systematically stolen hundreds of terabytes of data" from at least 141 organisations around the world. The White House said it has taken its concerns about cyber-theft to the highest levels of China's government. China has denied hacking and questioned Mandiant's report. "Hacking attacks are transnational and anonymous," said foreign ministry spokesman Hong Lei. "Determining their origins are extremely difficult. We don't know how the evidence in this so-called report can be tenable. Mr Hong added that Beijing "firmly opposes hacking", has taken steps to prevent it and is also a victim of cyber attacks. In an indication of the military sensitivity around the Shanghai site pinpointed by the report as home to the hacking group, the BBC's John Sudworth and his camera crew were briefly detained by soldiers when they went to film the facility. They were only released once they had handed over their footage. 'Extensive campaign' In its unusually detailed report, US-based computer security company Mandiant said it had investigated hundreds of data breaches since 2004, most of which it attributed to what it termed "Advanced Persistent Threat" actors. The details it had uncovered, it said, "convince us that the groups conducting these activities are based primarily in China and that the Chinese government is aware of them". The most prolific of these actors is APT1, which Mandiant says is "a single organisation of operators that has conducted a cyber espionage campaign against a broad range of victims since at least 2006". "From our observations, it is one of the most prolific cyber espionage groups in terms of the sheer quantity of information stolen," it said, adding that it was "likely government-sponsored and one of the most persistent of China's cyber threat actors". "We believe that APT1 is able to wage such a long-running and extensive cyber espionage campaign in large part because it receives direct government support," said Mandiant. The firm said it had traced the hacking activities of APT1 to the site of 12-storey building in the Pudong area of Shanghai. It said that Unit 61398 of the People's Liberation Army "is also located in precisely the same area" and that the actors had similar "missions, capabilities and resources". Among the findings about APT1 in the report were that it: 'Groundless' Unit 61398 has for some time been suspected by the US of being central to China's cyber espionage programme, the New York Times reports. Mandiant admitted there could be one alternative explanation for its findings: that "a secret, resourced organisation full of mainland Chinese speakers with direct access to Shanghai-based telecommunications infrastructure is engaged in a multi-year, enterprise scale computer espionage campaign right outside of Unit 61398's gates, performing tasks similar to Unit 61398's known mission". Several governments, foreign companies and organisations have said in the past they suspect China of carrying out extensive cyber espionage over periods of several years. On Tuesday, White House spokesman Jay Carney told reporters that the Obama administration had "repeatedly raised our concerns at the highest levels about cyber theft with senior Chinese officials including in the military and we will continue to do so". Mr Carney declined to comment specifically on the contents of the report. Last month, the New York Times said its systems had been infiltrated over a period of four months, after it wrote a report on the alleged wealth of China's outgoing Premier Wen Jiabao. Mandiant, which the paper hired to investigate, traced the hack to China. However, the paper said its breach had been attributed to a different group. The Wall Street Journal also reported a China-based hack. At the time, China's foreign ministry dismissed the New York Times accusations as "groundless", saying that to "conclude without hard evidence that China participated in such hacking attacks is totally irresponsible".Chemicals and defence firms targeted by hacking attack 31 October 2011 Symantec says the purpose of the attacks appears to have been industrial espionage At least 29 firms involved in the chemicals industry were targeted by a recent series of cyber-attacks traced to China, according to Symantec. The security company said it had evidence a further 19 companies, including defence specialists, had also been affected. It said the attacks began in late July and lasted until mid-September. Symantec said the campaign was focused on intellectual property, including formulas and design processes. While the report did not reveal the names of any of the companies involved, it did say they included Fortune 100 firms. It disclosed that at least 12 of the infected companies were based in the US, five in the UK, and two in Denmark. Several of the firms were also said to have developed materials for military vehicles. US giant Dow Chemicals confirmed to the BBC that it had been the target of "unusual emails" received during the summer. "Dow engaged internal and external response teams, including law enforcement, to address the situation," he said.  "As a result, we have no reason to believe our operations were compromised." Trojans Symantec said workers at the organisations were sent emails asking them to open an attachment. It said in some cases they claimed to be invitations from established business partners, in others a security update. The firm said if the attachments were opened they installed a piece of code known as a Trojan horse, which allowed the hackers to obtain details of the targets' computer networks. The attackers were then able to use this information to locate and copy files to another part of their targets' systems, from where they were extracted. Symantec identified the Trojan involved as PoisonIvy, which it said was developed by a Chinese speaker. The firm also said it had traced the attacks back to a "20-something male located in the Hebei region of China" who funnelled the process through a US computer server. Symantec said that when prompted, the man provided contact details for someone who would "perform hacking for hire". However, the company was unable to establish whether this was the same person or a different individual. The incidents are being linked to earlier attacks on carmakers and human rights organisations. "This is unfortunately becoming a new normal behaviour," Symantec's chief technology officer, Greg Day, told the BBC. "We had at least a decade of cybercrime which generally targeted anybody. Then we had the emergence of very skilled techniques involving a lot of time and effort to target global organisations." "What we have now is almost the commercialisation of those techniques, using elements such as advanced persistent threats to pursue espionage and intellectual property theft, whether that is for their own gain or resale."Fantastic futures? Technology and business in 2012 By Fiona Graham 27 December 2011 Look into the ball: What does 2012 hold for business technology? Although those of us following the Mayan long calendar may be heading into 2012 with some trepidation, for those taking a longer-term view here is our annual peek into what next year holds. Just as there are 12 days of Christmas, 12 people from across the technology spectrum give their insights to what the next year will hold. We have the first six here, with part two following on Friday. It's been a turbulent year for technology , and enterprise is no exception. The consumerisation of IT continues apace with more and more of us bringing our own devices to work. Cloud computing seems to be almost ubiquitous and virtualisation no longer sounds like something to do with the transporter in Star Trek. These topics and more all made it into last year's predictions . So what do the experts think is hovering on the horizon in 2012? Tom Standage - Digital Editor, The Economist Number one would be social networking in business. I think this is going to be very significant, because there are a number of reasons why companies might want to do this. I think they've been slow to because of the perception that using social networks is wasting time, what you might call social not-working. Tom Standage sees 2012 as the year NFC will finally take off And in fact the opposite is true. I think the chances are that the future of enterprise software looks like Facebook. We're seeing some companies adopting this already through systems like Chatter, Salesforce, Yammer and Jive - there's a whole bunch of them. The other thing of course is that people entering the workforce at this point are used to using social media, so if you give them enterprise software that looks like Facebook, they'll feel right at home. Another thing to watch for is that Google may lose control of Android. It's because the tablet market is going to be divided between Amazon and Apple from the looks of things. It's very hard to see how anyone else can get in in the middle. The future of enterprise software looks like Facebook Amazon can subsidise the cost of its tablets using subsidies from the sale of content and other things. They are essentially portable shops, a very clever idea. I think it's entirely possible that they dominate at the bottom end, and Apple dominates at the top end because it has scale, it can buy screen and processing power like no-one else can and it has the pricing power of its incredibly strong brand. This is a problem for Google because if this does happen that means that the dominant kind of Android tablet is the kind where Android itself is sort of hidden and is controlled by Amazon. The third thing is what happens to Research in Motion (RIM). Someone will buy them I think. The question is will they buy the whole of RIM in its current form. Blackberries for sale - and will manufacturer Research in Motion be bought as well? RIM itself could split in two into its hardware and services division and start offering Blackberry services as an app. I would be very surprised if RIM is still a company in its current form this time next year. One of my predictions from last year I would like to reiterate, and that is wireless payments. I was expecting the iPhone that came out this year to have an NFC (near field communication) chip in it and to shake up wireless payments. It didn't happen. I'm still convinced it's going to happen, I think it's going to happen next year, and the iPhone 5 will have an NFC chip in it. This I predict will be the latest example of where Apple blesses a technology that is out there but not really being done properly, and Apple comes along and goes: "This is how you do it." Elissa Fink - Tableau Software Firstly big data is just getting bigger and starting to really impact not just the IT organisations and the people that know how to deal with data, but also the everyday knowledge worker, the everyday manager, and the everyday business leader, who have a lot of data they need to get through to make good decisions. Even more adoption of mobile technologies will take place in businesses Number two is that the pace is quickening towards making enterprise software more like consumer software. Making it easier to use, faster, with far less training than ever before. And then number three would be mobile. Mobile adoption is going mainstream [in business]. Organisations are adopting tablets and particularly the iPad at very fast rates, and people want to be able to access their information wherever they are, even if it's just in a meeting next door. I would say [these are] the top three trends we're seeing, in no particular order. William Dudley - Group director, operator services, Sybase 365 I think we're going to see significant press not from Apple but about Apple. My prediction is that one of the things the iPhone 5 will do that will be significant will be to support NFC. NFC is just a trigger to start the process of paying for goods. But NFC doesn't do any good unless merchants have a point of sale capability to accept that. The next incarnation of the iPhone will be a major moment in 2012, says William Dudley And given that Apple has a tremendous database around their app store and iTunes, I would suspect that Apple would want to play a part in creating a point of sale ecosystem. I don't have a lot of details but I kind of suspect that this could be a place where they could play and have a big impact. Apple really has been a catalyst for multiple parts of the industry. Not to say that Google won't continue to accelerate their payment purchasing mobile service. Number two is probably around devices. I think we're going to see Windows Phone not die a slow death but sort of hold its own. I think RIM isn't done yet. Blackberry devices are popular worldwide and in some markets, in the Middle East and the UK, they're very popular. And they're certainly very well engrained in enterprises. RIM has got some capabilities and features that the Apple, Android, even Windows Phones do not. So I would not count them out yet. Ben Holmes - Partner, Index Ventures There's been enormous coverage of 3D printing. When we invested last year [in a 3D printing company] it was still science fiction, but it is rapidly moving from science fiction to science fact. I think it's an incredibly powerful concept, the idea of consumers being able to choose and make devices and products themselves. I think it's just at that point where the costs are falling very rapidly that it's now becoming more affordable. Two years ago it was used by high-end architectural practices and by Formula One teams to design and prototype their engines. 3D has evolved from science fiction to science fact (picture courtesy of Shapeways) I think increasingly the smartphone is becoming a sort of remote control for the world around you. Already you can order your food through this device, you can use it to hail a cab, to find concerts, and control the heating in your house. Then there's mobile gaming. A lot of VCs (venture capitalists) are probably attacking this theme. Facebook gaming is massive - but mobile gaming is still pretty small despite the success of some big names like Angry Birds. I think a lot of the games which are doing well in iOS and Android, they are fairly crude rip-offs of what happens on Facebook. I think very few companies have really thought deeply about the types of games that fully leverage this device. I think there will be a Zynga-sized company or bigger built off the back of mobile. Zynga has probably 50-60% of the social gaming market. The biggest company in mobile gaming has a 1.5% share. Neil Campbell - Global head of security, Dimension Data I think 2011 was the year of awareness when it comes to advanced persistent threats [an organised group or government that commits cyber attacks], and sadly 2012 will be the year that advanced persistent threats continue at an incredible pace to plague the internet. And I say that because they're relatively simple in their execution, they're taking advantage of relatively simple vulnerabilities, and they produce a lot of output in the form of all the information that becomes available to the perpetrators - which can be used for a number of reasons from espionage to fraud to blackmail. Neil Campbell predicts a tough year for cyber security Until that becomes very difficult to carry out, then we'll see the popularity of advanced persistent threats continue to increase. The thing that would stop the vulnerabilities being there is really basic security. We've been talking about this for years. When you think about the effort it takes to secure a network, it tends to be getting it perfect that takes the effort, it should be relatively easy to secure the basics. What conversation could be carried out today without cloud sneaking in there? The security needs of the cloud are down to the capabilities of the cloud provider, in the rush towards the cloud I'm sure there will be many situations where the two don't match. Bring your own device (BYOD) - which is the trend for people to buy their own [work] devices - can only increase as each generation becomes more computer literate. The cloud could bring security conflicts between businesses and service providers That's left organisations with the choice of embracing that trend and proactively developing a stance and policies on BYOD. If you ignore it people find ways to bring their favourite device to work and make it work. That can include things like setting up their own wireless access points or driving a hole through your firewall to access their email. People can be very creative when it comes to using technology they love in the way that they want to use it. Steven Prentice - VP and analyst, Gartner The control that the IT department has traditionally had over IT is perhaps more illusory than they thought. It is slipping away. The increasing use of mobile devices, and consumerisation, people using their own systems, social computing and social networking, collaboration tools, the rise in software as a service - business units are buying services as opposed to going to the IT department for systems. It is a challenging time and IT leaders need to be proactive in their approach and changing their attitudes. The thing that's going to hit most organisations I think is the whole big data explosion. It is driven by the wider internet of things, the proliferation of connected devices producing a mountain of data. Organisations are always saying: give us better data to help us make better decisions. I think IT is on the verge of being able to deliver some of those things. It's not going to be easy, there are all sorts of technology variables to be weighed, but the data can be collected, the data can be analysed. I think the internet of things is going to be one of those potential game changers. Mobile has become or is becoming the dominant form of access to the internet. I think that the whole social thing, the investment bubble on this is going to burst. We've seen some outrageous valuations during the dot.com boom. While I don't think that anyone is suggesting that social is going to go away, they're perhaps going to be a bit more realistic. Part two of our look ahead will be published on Friday, 30 December.