Iran and Israel's shadow war takes a dangerous turn By Frank Gardner 13 April Natanz is heavily protected, with its most sensitive machinery housed deep underground The long-running and undeclared shadow war between two of the Middle East's most implacable foes, Iran and Israel, appears to be heating up. Iran has blamed Israel for a mysterious explosion at the weekend that knocked out power at its uranium enrichment facility at Natanz. Israel has not publicly said it was behind what Iran calls "an act of sabotage" but US and Israeli media reports are quoting officials as saying it was carried out by Israel's overseas intelligence agency, Mossad. Iran has vowed to take revenge "at a time of its choosing". This is not an isolated incident. It follows a gradually accelerating pattern of hostile, tit-for-tat actions by both countries as they step up their covert war while being careful - so far - to avoid an all-out conflict which would be hugely destructive for both nations. So, what are the risks here and how is this likely to end? This "shadow war" can be broadly divided into three distinct fronts. Iran's nuclear programme Israel does not believe Iran's repeated assertions that its nuclear programme is a purely peaceful civil one. Israel is convinced that Iran is secretly working towards developing a nuclear warhead and the means to deliver it with a ballistic missile. Speaking on Monday during a visit from US Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin, Israeli Prime Minister Benyamin Netanyahu said: "In the Middle East there is no threat that is more serious, more dangerous, more pressing than that posed by the fanatical regime in Iran." Israeli Prime Minister Benyamin Netanyahu met US Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin on Monday Also on Monday Israel's Ambassador to London, Tzipi Hotovely, told the BBC: "Iran has never stopped working to develop nuclear weapons and the missiles capable of delivering them. Iran's pursuit of nuclear weapons.. make it a threat to the entire world." With this belief in mind, Israel has long been carrying out a series of covert, unilateral and undeclared actions to try to slow down or cripple Iran's nuclear programme. These include the insertion of a computer virus codenamed Stuxnet, first discovered in 2010, that incapacitated Iran's centrifuges. Earlier this century a number of key Iranian nuclear scientists died in mysterious circumstances and then in November 2020 there was the high-profile assassination near Tehran of Mohsen Fakhrizadeh. He was not only Iran's leading nuclear technical expert but he carried a senior rank in the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps (IRGC) and Israel believed he was the person running the covert "military" aspect of Iran's nuclear programme. That programme is now at a potentially dangerous stage. In 2015 Iran signed up to a multinational nuclear pact called the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) which lifted sanctions in exchange for stringent nuclear inspections. But in 2018 President Donald Trump pulled the US out of it, slapping draconian sanctions on Iran, which has responded by incrementally breaking the terms of the deal, most notably enriching uranium - the chemical element that can be used for nuclear energy or, potentially, weapons - beyond the permitted limits. President Joe Biden wants to bring the US back into the deal but only if Iran returns to full compliance. Iran is basically saying: "No, we don't trust you, you go first. We will comply fully once sanctions are lifted." To try to break this deadlock, negotiators from several countries are meeting in Vienna. But Israel doesn't believe the nuclear deal is worth reviving in its current form. Dr Michael Stephens, a Middle East analyst with the London thinktank Royal United Services Institute (RUSI), says recent Israeli actions are a deliberate attempt to sabotage the nuclear negotiations. "The Israelis are unilaterally trying to derail the Iranian nuclear programme, in a way which, while impressive in terms of technical capacity, is a risky game. First, these Israeli efforts could undermine the US negotiating position as it seeks to re-enter the nuclear deal with Iran. "But secondly the Iranians may look to counter, through asymmetric attacks against Israeli interests worldwide. Israel has proved it can disrupt the Iranian programme, but at what cost?" Maritime shipping Strange things have been happening at sea recently. Earlier this year an Israeli-owned cargo ship, the MV Helios, was badly damaged while transiting the Gulf of Oman. Two large holes were ripped in its hull and Israel swiftly blamed Iran's IRGC.  Iran denied any involvement. In April the Saviz, an Iranian vessel anchored in the southern Red Sea, suffered damage to its hull believed to have been caused by limpet mines. Israel and the Saudi-led Coalition in nearby Yemen believe the Saviz has been serving as a logistic "mothership" for Iran's Houthi allies in Yemen. Speedboats, machine-guns and sophisticated communication aerials have been spotted onboard but Iran says it is there for peaceful, legitimate purposes and blames Israel for the attack. US media reports say that over the past 18 months Israeli forces have targeted at least 12 ships bound for Syria, carrying Iranian oil and military supplies. Syria and Lebanon The fact that Syria has been at war within its own borders for the past 10 years has tended to divert attention away from Israeli military actions there. The civil war opened the way for a huge influx of Iranian military "advisers" from the IRGC, working in concert with Iran's Lebanese allies, Hezbollah, to support the regime of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. In some cases these IRGC forces have ventured within a short distance of the boundary with the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights. The Israeli-occupied Golan Heights has come within range of Iran's Revolutionary Guards Corp Israel has been particularly alarmed at Iran's supply of precision-guided rockets and missiles to its proxies within striking distance of Israeli cities and it has carried out numerous air strikes against these missile bases and supply lines in Syria, with little perceptible response from Iran so far. Conclusion The underlying theme of this shadow war is brinkmanship. Neither side can afford to look weak but both Iran and Israel know they need to carefully calibrate their actions so as not to trigger an all-out war. On the nuclear side it is clear that Israeli intelligence has been able to penetrate Iranian security to an astounding degree, deploying both human agents on the ground and cyber weapons to overcome Iranian countermeasures. On the maritime shipping side, Israel is at something of a geographical disadvantage. It has good access to the Red Sea through its own naval port at Eilat but further afield Iran has the upper hand, thanks to its long Gulf coastline and Houthi proxies in Yemen. In 2018, Israeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu unveiled what he claimed to be Iran's secret atomic archive In Syria and Lebanon there is always the option for Iran to deploy its proxies to launch missile strikes against Israel but this is extremely risky. Israel has made it clear the magnitude of its response and where it would land: in Iran. John Raine, an expert on transnational terrorism with the International Institute for Strategic Studies (IISS) says Israel's superior intelligence capabilities mean Iran has to content itself with "blunt" responses through its proxies. "Frustratingly for Iran, its best partner for striking Israel is Hezbollah but that would be an escalatory move which could embroil Hezbollah  in the war Iran wants to avoid. The Iranians usually have the asymmetric advantage but with Israel they are being outboxed. The Israelis have both a longer reach, faster footwork and when they decide to strike bluntly, as they have been doing in Syria, they hit harder."Iran vows revenge for 'Israeli' attack on Natanz nuclear site 12 April Iran's foreign ministry said a number of uranium centrifuges were damaged in the incident The Iranian foreign minister has said his country will "take revenge" for an attack on an underground nuclear site, for which it has blamed Israel. Iranian officials said the Natanz uranium enrichment plant was the target of "nuclear terrorism" on Sunday, after initially reporting a power failure. New advanced centrifuges to enrich uranium had just been activated there. Israel has not commented, but public radio cited intelligence sources as saying it was a Mossad cyber operation. They said it had caused more extensive damage than Iran had reported. US intelligence officials told the New York Times that a large explosion had completely destroyed the independent internal power system that supplied the centrifuges inside the underground facility. They estimated it could take at least nine months to resume enrichment there. Iran's Nour News agency, which is affiliated to the Supreme National Security Council, cited an intelligence ministry source as saying the "main perpetrator" had been identified and an operation was under way to arrest them. Iran's nuclear programme: What's been happening at its key nuclear sites? Israel has recently stepped up its warnings about its arch-foe's nuclear programme amid efforts to revive a 2015 nuclear deal that was abandoned by former US President Donald Trump. His successor, Joe Biden, has said he wants to return to the landmark accord. But Iran and the five other world powers still party to it - China, France, Germany, Russia and the UK - need to find a way for him to lift US sanctions and for Iran to return to the agreed limits on its nuclear programme. US and Iranian officials are holding indirect talks in the Austrian capital, Vienna, to try to break the impasse, with European officials acting as intermediaries. The European Union said it still needed to clarify the facts about the Natanz incident, but that it rejected "any attempts to undermine or weaken diplomatic efforts on the nuclear agreement". US Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin, who is visiting Israel, said he was aware of the reports about Natanz and that the Biden administration's diplomatic efforts to re-engage with Iran diplomatically would continue. Iran nuclear crisis: The basics "The Zionists want to take revenge because of our progress in the way to lift sanctions," Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif was quoted by state media as saying on Monday. "They have publicly said that they will not allow this. But we will take our revenge from the Zionists." Iran does not recognise Israel's right to exist and often refers to it as the "Zionist state". Foreign ministry spokesman Saeed Khatibzadeh later told a news conference in the capital, Tehran, that Israel was "of course" behind the attack on Natanz. "This incident, fortunately, did not cause any damage to human lives or the environment. However, it could have been a catastrophe. This is a crime against humanity and carrying out such actions is in line with the essence of the Zionist regime," he said. Mr Khatibzadeh said only the least efficient "IR-1" centrifuges were damaged in the incident, and that they would be replaced with advanced ones. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu did not mention the incident at a later joint news conference with the US defence secretary. But he stated: "My policy... is clear: I will never allow Iran to obtain the nuclear capability to carry out its genocidal goal of eliminating Israel. And Israel will continue to defend itself against Iran's aggression and terrorism." The undeclared "near war" between Iran and Israel is heating up. The latest damage done to Iran's nuclear programme, for which Iran has vowed to take revenge, follows a series of tit-for-tat actions around the Middle East. There have been mysterious explosions on ships' hulls, blamed variously on both countries, and most significantly last November, there was the assassination in broad daylight near Tehran of Mohsen Fakhrizadeh , the man suspected of leading Iran's military nuclear programme. The Israeli air force has also carried out numerous air strikes against missile bases in Syria and other sites where Iranian advisers have been providing assistance to units of Hezbollah, the Shia Islamist militant group. Israel sees Iran's nuclear programme as a potential threat to its existence and is determined to delay or stop it. It does not see any point in current efforts to revive the Iran nuclear deal, believing it to be ineffective. The attack on Natanz is likely to strengthen the hand of Iran's hardliners and complicate any future negotiations. Enriched uranium is produced by feeding uranium hexafluoride gas into centrifuges to separate out the most suitable isotope for nuclear fission, called U-235. The nuclear deal only allows Iran to use IR-1 centrifuges to produce limited quantities of uranium enriched up to 3.67% concentration, which can be used to produce fuel for commercial nuclear power plants. Uranium that is enriched to 90% or more can be used to make nuclear weapons. Iran, which insists it does not want nuclear weapons, has retaliated against the sanctions reinstated by the Trump administration by rolling back key commitments under the accord. These have included operating advanced centrifuges, resuming enrichment to 20% concentration, and building a stockpile of that material. On Saturday, when Iran marked National Nuclear Technology Day, President Hassan Rouhani inaugurated a cascade (or cluster) of 164 advanced IR-6 centrifuges at Natanz. He also launched tests on new IR-9 centrifuges, which officials said could enrich uranium 50 times faster than the IR-1. This is not the first time that Natanz has been the target of sabotage. Last July, an above-ground centrifuge assembly plant was badly damaged by what Iranian officials said was a fire. In response, Iran began building a new structure underneath nearby mountains. Enrichment at the plant was previously disrupted by the Stuxnet computer virus, widely believed to have been created by the US and Israel. The virus, which was discovered in 2010, changed the speeds at which the centrifuges spun and reportedly ruined almost 1,000 of them. Iran also accused Israel of being behind the assassination of its top nuclear scientist, Mohsen Fakhrizadeh, last November. Israel neither confirmed nor denied any involvement. And in recent months the countries have accused each other of being behind explosions that have damaged Israeli and Iranian commercial vessels. Recent alleged Israel-Iran attacks 11 April : Iran's Natanz uranium enrichment plant reportedly seriously damaged in sabotage attack; Iran blames Israel 6 April: Iranian cargo ship Saviz, allegedly used for spying, damaged by blast in Red Sea off coast of Eritrea; New York Times says Israel informed US that it carried out attack 25 March: Israeli cargo ship Lori hit by missile in Arabian Sea; Israeli security officials say Iran suspected 10 March: Iranian cargo ship Shahr-e Kord hit by blast in Mediterranean Sea; Iranian media say Israel to blame 26 February: Israeli vehicle carrier MV Helios Ray hit by explosion in Gulf of Oman; Israel blames Iran 27 November 2020: Iranian nuclear scientist Mohsen Fakhrizadeh assassinated, reportedly by satellite-controlled machine gun, outside Tehran; Iran accuses Israel 2 July 2020: Natanz centrifuge assembly plant hit by blasts, reportedly causing extensive damage; Iran blames sabotage June-July 2020: Series of mysterious fires and explosions hit industrial, power, medical and nuclear sites across Iran; Western intelligence sources say Israel suspected of involvement 9 May 2020: Israel reportedly behind cyber-attack on Shahid Rajaee port in Iran 24 April 2020: Israel accuses Iran of cyber-attack on water pumping stationComputer virus alters cancer scan images 4 April 2019 The experimental malware could add fake tumours and other signs of disease to scans A computer virus that can add fake tumours to medical scan images has been created by cyber-security researchers. In laboratory tests, the malware altered 70 images and managed to fool three radiologists into believing patients had cancer. The altered images also managed to trick automated screening systems. The team from Israel developed the malicious software to show how easy it is to get around security protections for diagnostic equipment. The program was able to convincingly add fake malignant growths to images of lungs taken by MRI and CT scanning machines. The researchers, from Ben Gurion University's cyber-security centre, said the malware could also remove actual malignant growths from image files to prevent patients who are targets getting the care they need. The images targeted were scans of lungs but the malware could be tuned to produce other fake conditions such as brain tumours, blood clots, fractures or spinal problems, according to the Washington Post, which first reported on the research. Images and scans were vulnerable, said the researchers, because the files were generally not digitally signed or encrypted. This means any changes would be hard to spot. The researchers suggested the security flaws could be exploited to sow doubt about the health of government figures, sabotage research, commit insurance fraud or as part of a terrorist attack. In addition, they said, weaknesses in the way hospitals and health care centres protect their networks could give attackers easy access. While hospitals were careful about sharing sensitive data beyond their boundaries, they took much less care when handling data internally, said one of the researchers. "What happens within the hospital system itself, which no regular person should have access to in general, they tend to be pretty lenient about," Yisroel Mirsky told the Washington Post. Better use of encryption and digital signatures could help hospitals avoid problems if cyber-attackers tried to subvert images, he added. Hospitals and other healthcare organisations have been a popular target for cyber-attackers and many have been hit by malicious ransomware that encrypts files and only returns the data when victims pay up. The NHS was hit hard in 2017 by the WannaCry ransomware which left many hospitals scrambling to recover data.Kwik Fit garages hit by computer virus 30 January 2019 Kwik Fit has confirmed that its computer network has been infected with malware, disrupting its ability to book in vehicle repairs and handle other customer requests. The car service specialist began telling customers that its IT systems had gone offline on Saturday, but initially indicated the issue had been rectified the same day. It has since told the BBC that it is still experiencing some problems. However, it declined to elaborate. "We first experienced some issues with a virus in our IT network during the weekend," said a spokeswoman. "This affected a number of our systems but in the interest of ongoing security we can't confirm the source of the problem. "We have been working to get our operational systems back up and running normally and while there is still some disruption, our centres are open as usual." Several customers have sent messages to the firm via social media to express frustration. @Kwik_Fit you cancelled my tyre fitting appointment on Saturday, promised that you would arrive to fit my tyres this morning (Monday)...... no show and no contact. “You can’t get better than a Kwik-Fit Fitter, were the boys to trust” ...... — Jase O'T (@Jase_OT) January 28, 2019 View original tweet on Twitter We are sorry to hear this. This could be down to the fact that we are having some technical issues at the moment. Are you able to call our customer service team on- 0800 757 677. Thank you. -BH — Kwik Fit CS (@KwikFitCS) January 28, 2019 View original tweet on Twitter @Kwik_Fit Turned up at Kwik Fit Coventry at 10am for a booked brake test and was told that the systems have been down for more than 24 hours so they can't carry out the test. Gave my number and told them to call me when the systems have been sorted. Heard nothing. any update? — Steve Rumney (@STEVEN_RUMNEY) January 27, 2019 View original tweet on Twitter The company declined to discuss what the motivation for the attack might be, but said that it did not believe its customers' records had been affected. "We can reassure customers that we do not store any of their financial information and currently have no reason to believe that any customer data was compromised," said a spokeswoman. "For security reasons we are not able to say anything else."Computer virus shuts genealogy records service 30 March 2016 The National Records of Scotland genealogy service has been closed until further notice due to a computer virus. The public search rooms, at New Register House in Edinburgh, were shut on Wednesday 23 March It followed the discovery of "ransomware" in an admin file. A spokeswoman said the virus, which can restrict access to files and then demand payment for them to be released, was caught before it could do any damage. Cyber security is now being checked. Copies of birth and other certificates are still available and neither the registration service nor the Scotland's People website are affected. The closure affects public access to photographs of birth records less than 100 years old, marriage records less than 75 years old, and death records less than 50 years old, which can only be viewed in person at the office and not online. The service is normally used by people looking to research their family tree. Locked file Anne Slater, speaking on behalf of the National Records of Scotland, said: "The service has been closed since last Wednesday. "It's a ransomware virus. It comes in and tries to lock up your files and then you have to give them money. "It was noticed in a file. I believe it was a spreadsheet - an administration file. " Ms Slater said that it was thought the virus first got into the file after it was embedded in a website which been clicked on. She said was spotted before it could cause any damage. She added it was contained the same day and the reason for the current closure was because of rigorous safety checks. She said: "It's a belt and braces approach. We're checking all our back-end network. " Asked if she knew when the service would re-open, she said: "Right now, no. We're looking to open it as soon as possible." A spokeswoman for Fraser and Fraser, the firm which features in BBC One series Heir Hunters, said one of their researchers was told about the issue when they arrived to do a routine check. She said: "For us these records are crucial for our research, so we can confirm that the correct family members and/or beneficiaries are located and receive their entitlement from the unclaimed estates. "Our concern is how long will they be gone for?"Computer virus affects hospitals in Lincolnshire 'for five days' 1 November 2016 Contingency plans are in place to ensure emergency cases are dealt with Routine operations and outpatient appointments could be suspended for five days because a virus caused the computer network to crash. Hundreds of people are affected by the attack on Northern Lincolnshire and Goole (NLAG) NHS Foundation Trust and United Lincolnshire Hospitals Trust. About 20 operations have been cancelled at Lincoln County and 15 at Pilgrim Hospital in Boston. NLAG said contingency plans were in place to maintain emergency services. More on this story and others on BBC Local Live: Lincolnshire The antenatal department is running as normal, as are chemotherapy, audiology, paediatrics, gynaecology, community and therapy and laboratory services. A limited number of endoscopy procedures at NLAG will also go ahead. NLAG runs hospitals in Goole, Grimsby and Scunthorpe, and its computer system is linked to that at United Lincolnshire Hospitals Trust (ULHT). The trust's deputy chief executive Karen Dunderdale said it was working under major incident status following Sunday's cyber attack. She said that the named departments were the only ones functioning as normal:  "Patients who have appointments in all other departments should assume their appointment/procedure is cancelled unless they receive a telephone call to say otherwise." A statement on the ULHT website said "Our A&Es are open, but we urge everyone to think twice before they go to A&E - if it's not serious or life threatening, you shouldn't be there." The medical director at NLAG, Laurence Roberts, said it was possible to get access to patient information on the computer system, but it was very slow. "We can get at that material but it does mean having to access it at very central points in the organisation and then either print it out and walk it around or people have to walk around the building to access it."The computer virus that blackmails you By Zoe Kleinman 14 December 2015 Technology explained: what is ransomware? Ransomware is the fastest growing form of computer malware, experts warn. It's a malicious virus that locks the user out of their computer and demands a fee to return their files. A report published by the Australian government claims 72% of businesses surveyed experienced ransomware incidents in 2015. The figure was just 17% in 2013 . It's also a growing threat for mobile devices as it can be hidden in an app, says Gert-Jan Schenk, vice-president at internet security company Lookout. "For the most part, we've seen ransomware delivered through drive-by downloads - it pretends to be a popular app, increasing the chances that you'll click on it," he explains. "To avoid these threats, users should be very careful about what apps they install, and where they come from - read the reviews on Google Play, and avoid side-loading from untrusted sources." How does it work? The ransom is usually demanded in the form of bitcoins Like most computer viruses, ransomware often arrives in the form of a phishing email, or spam, or a fake software update - and the recipient clicks a link or opens an attachment. The virus then sets to work encrypting the user's files. Once the computer is effectively locked down, it demands a fee - often in bitcoins because it is less easy to trace - for the return of the files. The fee is generally one or two bitcoins - the equivalent of about $500 (£330). It is less common now, but in the earlier days of the malware - about five years ago - the ransom note could take the form of a law enforcement notice. The user was directed to a web page that appeared to be from, for example, the FBI, falsely claiming illegal images of children had been been found on the machine and a fine was payable. There is generally a time limit to comply, after which the ransom increases. Is there any way to get round it? Back up, back up, back up... Sometimes it is just a threat, but mostly the virus really does encrypt files. The only way to retrieve your files without paying the ransom is to go to a backed-up version. Neil Douglas, from Edinburgh-based IT company Network Roi, has just helped a small business client whose server was hit by ransomware. "We had to recover everything from back-up. We'd had a back-up two minutes before the infection, so the timing couldn't have been any better - but it did result in quite a bit of downtime," he says. "You could risk paying them - but it's a bit like paying  a blackmailer. We would only recommend it as a last resort. "You don't know whether they'll come back for more, you don't know that they'll clear the infection." Cybersecurity expert Prof Alan Woodward says paying also leaves you vulnerable to further cybercrime. "As soon as you pay up, you get on a suckers' list and you'll probably get contacted again," he says. "It's low-hanging fruit for the criminals." Do many people pay? The official advice is not to pay - but many do While all the expert advice is, of course, not to pay, plenty of people do - even those you would least expect to. Tewksbury Police, in the US, admitted they had paid up when their main server had been attacked and locked down at the end of last year. "Nobody wants to negotiate with terrorists. Nobody wants to pay terrorists," Police Chief Timothy Sheehan told the town's local paper . "We did everything we possibly could. "It was an eye-opening experience, I can tell you right now. It made you feel that you lost control of everything. "Paying the bitcoin ransom was the last resort." Ransomware is lucrative for criminals because so many victims pay rather than face the shame of false accusations - or like the police department, they just desperately need their files. "Some companies have set up bitcoin accounts in case it happens to them," says Prof Woodward. "I would recommend that nobody ever pays up. "The only way to deal with it is to be sure you have a virus checker and back up." Who is behind it? Organised crime gangs use computer viruses to generate money "It tends to be organised crime," says Prof Woodward. "They do make millions out of it. It's opportunistic... they just try it on everybody. You keep third parties out of it - the bank isn't involved." Recent research by Palo Alto Networks and industry partners suggested one family of ransomware known as Crypto Wall had generated about $325m (£215m) for the gang behind it. "In the volume cybercrime space, ransomware is one of the most prolific problems we face," Greg Day, chief security officer for Europe at Palo Alto Networks, told the BBC last month. "Credit card theft is getting to the point where the value of each card is very low.  As a result, ransomware has stepped into that gap and gives a higher value for each victim."Computer virus hits Royal Berkshire Hospital operations 19 February 2016 The Trust said the virus has not affected patients' data. A number of operations have been postponed at Royal Berkshire Hospital due to a computer virus. Pathology, eye and audiology services have been affected by the bug which originated in an email attachment. Mary Sherry, chief operating officer for Royal Berkshire NHS Foundation Trust, said a number of outpatient appointments also had to be rescheduled. The trust said the virus has not affected patients' data. 'Lock down' According to the trust, priority has been given to patients who have the most urgent need or who are ready for discharge pending pathology results. Ms Sherry added: "At the same time, the trust's services remain under pressure because of the volume of patients needing emergency care and the demand for our services and for beds remains high. "The trust has locked down its network to protect it from any further intervention and informed the relevant authorities. "Teams are working around the clock to resolve this issue and continue to protect the trust's network." The virus is believed to be a variant of a known XP bug designed to disrupt services.Russian hacker group Evil Corp targets US workers at home 26 June 2020 One Russian national is accused of carrying out attacks on behalf of the Russian state A Russian hacking group is launching ransomware attacks against a number of US companies, targeting employees who are working from home due to Covid-19. Evil Corp hackers have tried to access at least 31 organisations' networks in order to cripple systems and demand millions of dollars in ransom. The group's two alleged leaders were indicted by the US Justice Department in December 2019. There are concerns that US voting systems could also be targeted. Last year, US authorities filed charges against Evil Corp's alleged leaders Maksim Yakubets and Igor Turashev, accusing them of using malware to steal millions of dollars from groups including schools and religious organisations in over 40 countries. Officials announced a $5m reward for information leading to their arrest, which they said was the largest amount ever offered for a cyber criminal. Both men are still at large. Maksim Yakubets (L) and Igor Turashev are accused of running Evil Corp The threat comes as the majority of Americans have been working from home due to the coronavirus pandemic -  62% according to a Gallup poll . The US presidential election is also just months away, and federal and local officials have been working to put measures in place to protect voter records as well as manage safe voting practices amid the pandemic. What do we know about the attack? Symantec Corporation, a firm that monitors corporate and government networks released a notice warning of the threat it identified on Thursday night. The attacks used what Symantec described as a relatively new type of ransomware called WastedLocker, which has been attributed to Evil Corp. Ransomware are computer viruses that threaten to delete files unless the ransom is paid. The WastedLocker ransomware virus demands ransoms of $500,000 to $1m to unlock computer files it seizes. Symantec said the "vast majority of targets are major corporations, including many household names", and eight targets were Fortune 500 companies. All are US-owned but one, which is a US-based subsidiary. Most targeted companies were in the manufacturing, information technology and media sectors. Technology explained: what is ransomware? Symantec said the hackers had breached the networks of these companies and were "laying the groundwork" for future ransomware attacks that would let them block access to data and demand millions of dollars. Symantec technical director Eric Chien told the New York Times the hackers take advantage of employees now using virtual private networks (VPNs) to access work systems. They use VPNs to identify which company a user works for, and then infect the user's computer when they visit a public or commercial site. When the user next connects to their employer's system, the hackers can attack. What's the context? There have been a number of recent cyber-attacks on local governments across the US. Cities and towns in Louisiana, Oregon, Maryland, Georgia, Texas and Florida were hit by ransomware attacks last year. The Department of Homeland Security is looking into safeguarding voter registration databases ahead of November 3's general election. In February, the agency's head of cyber-security said this was a key election security concern . These attacks by foreign cyber-criminals are far from a new threat. During the impeachment inquiry last year, former White House security adviser and Russia expert Fiona Hill testified that "Russia's security services and their proxies have geared up to repeat their interference in the 2020 election". In 2018, the justice department charged 12 Russian intelligence officers with hacking Democratic officials in the 2016 US elections, using spear phishing emails and malicious software. The hackers also stole data on half a million voters from a state election board site. Moscow has said there is no evidence linking the 12 to military intelligence or hacking.Computer virus hits office printers 22 June 2012 In the worst hit offices, hundreds of printers have been spewing out gibberish Thousands of office printers around the world have been spewing out page after page of gibberish because of a computer virus. Reports from companies reveal that thousands of pages of paper were wasted when the Windows virus hit their PCs. Security firms said the worst hit were large businesses in the US, India, Europe, and South America. The culprit is a malicious program called Milicenso that has been re-used many times by hi-tech crime groups. In a blogpost analysing the virus, security firm Symantec said Milicenso was first seen in 2010 and because it was a "malware delivery vehicle for hire" had turned up regularly ever since. Its most recent incarnation was as a tool for distributing French language adware. Symantec said Milicenso could infect a PC by various routes, such as an email attachment, via a compromised website or by posing as a fake video decoder. 'Garbled printouts' Once installed, the virus polls a location on the net and re-directs web traffic so it serves up adverts. Symantec said one side effect of infection was to generate a file in a PC's printer queue. This turns the contents of the files in the virus's main directory into print jobs. "The garbled printouts appear to be a side effect of the infection vector rather an intentional goal of the author," said Symantec. Victims hit by the virus have reported its effects via discussion forums run by security firms. In the worst cases, hundreds of printers have been generating gibberish and wasting reams of paper. Security firms have now issued updates that should spot Milicenso and clean up any infections.South Korea network attack 'a computer virus' 20 March 2013 Staff at broadcaster YTN were faced with error messages on computer screens Disruption that paralysed the computer networks of broadcasters and banks in South Korea appears to have been caused by a virus, an official close to the investigation has told the BBC. The official said it was believed a "malicious" code was to blame for the system failure. He said investigators were trying to identify and analyse the virus. Last week, North Korea accused the US and its allies of attacks on its internet servers. In the latest incident, two South Korean banks, Shinhan Bank and Nonghyup, and three TV stations KBS, MBS and YTN, all reported that their networks had suddenly shut down on Wednesday afternoon. The BBC's Lucy Williamson in Seoul says that, for one of the world's most networked populations, South Korea has had more than its share of cyber attacks. North Korea has been blamed for several breaches over the past few years, she says. Initially, South Korea's Communications Commission suspected a cyber-attack. However, the BBC was later told that experts had concluded it was not a denial-of-service attack, of the kind South Korea has experienced in the past. 'Skulls' on screens Staff at the three broadcasters said their computers crashed and could not be restarted, with screens simply displaying an error message, although they have continued to make television broadcasts, our correspondent said. There were also reports of skulls popping up on some computer screens, which could indicate that hackers had installed malicious code in the networks, the Korean Internet Security Agency said. Some services at Shinhan bank, including internet banking and ATM machines, were also affected, although operations now appear to have been restored. In the immediate aftermath of the incident, South Korean internet service provider LG Uplus said it believed its network had been hacked, Reuters news agency reported. An official from the presidential office told Yonhap news agency it was not yet known whether North Korea was involved. "We do not rule out the possibility of North Korea being involved, but it's premature to say so," Defence Ministry spokesman Kim Min-seok said. Hackers can cover their tracks by launching their attacks indirectly by hijacking other people's computer systems, says the BBC's technology correspondent Mark Gregory. Tracing an attack to its original source can be complex in the extreme, he adds. Services at two banks were hit by the incident, which began at around 14:00 local time However, in some highly sophisticated attacks, hackers' precise methods have provided clues to their identity. Slight variations in method have acted as a kind of digital signature, to help investigators trace who they are, our correspondent says. Surveillance upgrade No government-related computer networks were affected, an official from the National Computing and Information Agency (NCIA) told Yonhap. The military has upgraded its information surveillance status by one level, Yonhap said. North Korea is believed to have been behind two major cyber attacks on the South, in 2009 and 2011, that targeted government agencies and financial firms. Nonghyup bank was one of the victims of the 2011 attack, which left its customers unable to access or transfer their cash for three days. North Korea has stepped up rhetoric in recent days in response to fresh UN sanctions over its nuclear test in February and joint annual military drills between the US and South Korea, which it bitterly opposes. On 15 March, North Korea's KCNA news agency accused the US and its allies of "intensive and persistent" hacking attacks on its networks. Official sites such as KCNA, Air Koryo and Rodong Sinmun, the party newspaper, were reportedly inaccessible for short periods.Computer virus hits second energy firm 31 August 2012 Oil and energy firms are being targeted by a destructive virus say security researchers Computer systems at energy firm RasGas have been taken offline by a computer virus only days after a similar attack on oil giant Aramco. The attacks come as security experts warn of efforts by malicious hackers to target the oil and energy industry. The attack forced the Qatar-based RasGas firm to shut down its website and email systems. RasGas, one of the world's largest producers of liquid petroleum gas, said production was not hit by the attack. The company said it spotted the "unknown virus" earlier this week and took desktop computers, email and web servers offline as it cleaned up. The report comes only days after Saudi Arabia's Aramco revealed it had completed a clean-up operation after a virus knocked out 30,000 of its computers. The cyber- assault on Aramco also only hit desktop computers rather than operational plant and machinery. Both attacks come in the wake of alerts issued by security firms about a virus called "Shamoon" or "Disstrack" that specifically targets companies in the oil and energy sectors. Unlike many other contemporary viruses Shamoon/Disstrack does not attempt to steal data but instead tries to delete it irrecoverably. The virus spreads around internal computer networks by exploiting shared hard drives. Neither RasGas nor Aramco has released details of which virus penetrated its networks. The vast majority of computer viruses are designed to help cyber-thieves steal credit card numbers, online bank account credentials and other valuable digital assets such as login names and passwords. However, an increasing number of viruses are customised to take aim at specific industries, nations or companies. The best known of these viruses is the Stuxnet worm which was written to disable equipment used in Iran's nuclear enrichment efforts.Android mobiles hit by spamming computer virus 18 December 2012 Popular games, such as Angry Birds, are being used by the Android scammers Cyber-thieves are using games including Angry Birds to turn Android phones into spam-sending drones. Phones have been infected with spam-forwarding software that hid inside free versions of popular Android games. Once installed, the booby-trapped app contacts a web server for a list of phone numbers then starts sending junk text messages to them. Angry Birds Space, Need for Speed Most Wanted and many other games have been used in the attack. The first stage of the campaign to recruit phones to act as spam relays. It involved sending out thousands of messages supposedly offering people free versions of popular Android games, said network security firm Cloudmark in an analysis of the SpamSoldier attack . The copies of the games were held on a server in China rather than on the main Google Play store, it said. After the app is downloaded users must disable some safeguards, grant the app permission to install and give it the ability to browse the web or send texts messages before it will run. Attack spreading Once installed the app removes its icon from a phone's main screen and then contacts a central server for a list of target phone numbers. It then starts sending out spam messages in a bid to trick more people into downloading and installing the rogue app. Other spam messages sent via infected phones falsely told people they had won a gift card. In a separate analysis mobile security firm Lookout said SpamSoldier worked hard to hide its activity by editing outgoing message logs to hide the junk texts being sent. In addition, it also looks for responses from the numbers it spammed to prevent victims finding out about its presence. So far, said security firms, the number of phones infected remained low but junk texts sent by infected phones were starting to pop up on all US carriers. Cloudmark said whoever was behind the attack had recently ramped up their use of it. Now, it said, it was seeing more than 500,000 junk texts per day being sent through infected Android phones. "This sort of attack changes the economics of SMS spam, as the spammer no longer has to pay for the messages that are sent," said analyst Andrew Conway at Cloudmark. " Now that we know it can be done, we can expect to see more more complex attacks that are harder to take down." Ciaran Bradley, head of handset security at Adaptive Mobile, said growing numbers of spammers were adopting this tactic. "We've also seen the spammers try to spread the infection by advertising free adult videos featuring a well-known reality TV star," he said. ". It illustrates the lengths spammers will go to to ensure their messages are delivered and to avoid detection." To help protect themselves, Android owners were urged to be wary of unexpected messages that offer free versions of apps which are usually sold.Love Bug's creator tracked down to repair shop in Manila By Geoff White 3 May 2020 The man behind the world's first major computer virus outbreak has admitted his guilt, 20 years after his software infected millions of machines worldwide. Filipino Onel de Guzman, now 44, says he unleashed the Love Bug computer worm to steal passwords so he could access the internet without paying. He claims he never intended it to spread globally. And he says he regrets the damage his code caused. "I didn't expect it would get to the US and Europe. I was surprised," he said in an interview for Crime Dot Com, a forthcoming book on cyber-crime. The Love Bug pandemic began on 4 May, 2000. Victims received an email attachment entitled LOVE-LETTER-FOR-YOU. It contained malicious code that would overwrite files, steal passwords, and automatically send copies of itself to all contacts in the victim's Microsoft Outlook address book. Within 24 hours, it was causing major problems across the globe, reportedly infecting 45 million machines. It also overwhelmed organisations' email systems, and some IT managers disconnected parts of their infrastructure to prevent infection. This led to estimates of damage and disruption running into billions of pounds. In the UK, Parliament shut down its email network for several hours to protect itself, and even the Pentagon was reportedly affected. The previous year, the Melissa bug is believed to have infected a million machines using similar tactics. However, Love Bug dwarfed previous outbreaks and exposed how vulnerable the world's increasing internet connectivity was to attack. Investigators traced the virus to an email address registered to an apartment in Manila, capital of the Philippines. The occupant's brother was Onel de Guzman, a computer science student at the city's AMA Computer College. He was a member of an underground hacking group called Grammersoft and quickly became the lead suspect in a police investigation. De Guzman's lawyer organised a press conference on 11 May, at which de Guzman appeared to speak little English. When asked whether he may have released the virus accidentally, de Guzman said: "It is possible." At the time, the Philippines had no law covering computer hacking, and neither de Guzman nor anyone else was ever prosecuted. Suspicion also fell on de Guzman's fellow student Michael Buen, who has been cited online as the co-author of the Love Bug. I set out to track down Onel de Guzman and resolve the 20-year mystery of Love Bug's origin. Online rumours claimed de Guzman had moved to Germany, Austria or the US. Some claimed he had been recruited by Microsoft following the outbreak. All proved to be wide of the mark. On a forum dedicated to the Philippine underworld, a user claimed in 2016 that de Guzman ran a mobile phone repair shop in the Quiapo district of Manila. In April 2019, I visited the area hoping to encounter the suspect, only to find a sprawling market containing dozens of mobile phone repair shops. I wrote Onel de Guzman's name on a piece of paper and showed it to shop workers at random in the hope that someone would recognise it. Finally an employee said he knew of de Guzman and believed he now worked in another phone repair booth at a shopping mall elsewhere in Manila. After several hours wandering around the mall and showing de Guzman's name, I was directed to a cramped, messy stall at the very back of the building, and after waiting several hours for him to turn up, Onel de Guzman arrived. He admitted having created Love Bug, which he said was a revamped version of an earlier virus he had coded in order to steal internet access passwords. In the era of dial-up internet, such passwords were needed to get online, and de Guzman says he could not afford to pay for one. He claims he initially sent the virus only to Philippine victims, with whom he communicated in chat rooms, because he only wanted to steal internet access passwords that worked in his local area. However, in spring 2000 he tweaked the code, adding an auto-spreading feature that would send copies of the virus to victims' Outlook contacts, using a flaw in Microsoft's Windows 95 operating system. He also created a title for the email attachment that would have global appeal, tempting people across the world to open it. "I figured out that many people want a boyfriend, they want each other, they want love, so I called it that," he said. Onel de Guzman says he regrets the damage his creation caused De Guzman claims he sent the virus initially to someone in Singapore, and then went out drinking with a friend. The first he knew of the global chaos he had unleashed was when his mother told him police were hunting a hacker in Manila. He explained that his mother hid his computer equipment. De Guzman insists Buen had nothing to do with Love Bug and that he was its sole creator. After a period of lying low, de Guzman returned to computer work but did not go back to college. He now runs the small booth with another member of staff. He says he regrets writing the virus, and the infamy it has brought him. "Sometimes I get my picture on the internet," he said. "My friends say, 'It's you!' I'm a shy person, I don't want this."Computer virus accuses victims of viewing child porn 1 February 2013 The virus uses a window crafted to look like it was issued by official agencies German federal police are warning about a computer virus that accuses victims of viewing "juvenile pornography". It also displays an image that it claims reveals images of child sexual abuse have been viewed on a computer. The Windows virus locks a computer and only returns control to its owner on payment of a 100 euro (£86) fine. It purports to be collecting cash on behalf of German copyright authorities and the country's national computer security agency. The virus amounted to "digital extortion" and victims should not pay up, said German police. The warning about the novel strain of ransomware was issued by Germany's Federal Criminal police office (the Bundeskriminalamt or BKA). The ransomware version found by the BKA uses a pop-up window that says the machine has been locked down due to "unauthorised network activity". The window is crafted to look like it has been put together by Germany's Federal Office for Information Security (BKI) and its society for prosecution of copyright infringement (GVU). 'Emotional blackmail' Text in the window claims that images of child sexual abuse as well as pirated content have been found on the machine. Also displayed is an picture of a child which it claims reveals illegal images have been viewed. Rik Ferguson, director of security research at Trend Micro, said it was the first time he had heard of ransomware displaying images that users were accused of harbouring. "It seems that they are attempting to increase the pressure of this kind of emotional blackmail," he told the BBC. Germany's BKA said users should not pay the fine "under any circumstances" and added that neither the BKI or GVU collected cash in this way from those suspected of viewing illegal images or pirating content. Instead, users should use anti-virus and other security software to clean up their PC and deal with the virus. "This is a form of digital extortion," said the BKA in its alert about the virus. Ransomware, which tries to make victims pay an on-the-spot fine, is becoming more prevalent but most strains simply accuse people of pirating movies or music. Others scramble data that is only unscrambled when a fee is paid. Security firm Symantec said it was seeing more and more strains of ransomware and said it could be "highly profitable" for its creators. It estimated that ransomware makers were already making about $5m (£3m) a year from such malicious code.Europeans charged in US over destructive computer virus 24 January 2013 US Attorney Preet Bharara described the case as "a wake-up call" to banks and consumers US prosecutors say they have charged three men with creating and distributing a virus that infected more a million computers around the world. They say the Gozi virus was used to access personal bank information and steal millions of dollars in 2005-11. The suspects - a Russian, a Latvian and a Romanian -  ran a "modern-day bank robbery ring, that required neither a gun or a mask", the prosecutors say. The three men - all in their 20s - have already been arrested. Nikita Kuzmin, a 25-year-old Russian national, pleaded guilty to the charges in May 2011, US Attorney Preet Bharara revealed at a news conference in New York on Wednesday. Extradition proceedings against the other two men - Romania's Mihai Ionut Paunescu, 28, and 27-year-old Deniss Calovskis from Latvia - are now under way. The ongoing US government investigation alleges that the scheme began in Europe and later spread to the US, where at one stage more than 190 computers belonging to America's Nasa space agency were infected. They say that Mr Kuzmin and his co-defenders - nicknamed Virus and Miami - have managed to produce at least $50m (£32m) in illegal profits using the virus. "This case should serve as a wake-up call to banks and consumers alike because cybercrime remains one of the greatest threats we face, and it is not going away anytime soon," Mr Bharara said. He said that the FBI had worked with a number of European countries, including Britain, in tracking down the scheme - one of the most financially destructive yet seen.Syrian activists hit by computer virus attack 21 June 2012 Anti-governments protesters in Syria are being urged to be careful what they click Syrian anti-government activists are being targeted with malicious computer programs seeking to steal data, a digital rights group has said. The Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) issued a warning about a booby-trapped file posing as an add-on for net phone service Skype. Anyone caught out by the malicious file would give its creators remote access to their computer. The EFF said the attack was the latest in a series aimed at Syrian dissidents. Disastrous consequences In its warning , the EFF said the malicious program was in a message being sent to people known to be supporters of the rebels in Syria. Posing as an "important new video" the program claims to be able to encrypt and protect calls made by Skype. However, the EFF said anyone installing the program would be putting in place a remote-access Trojan file designed to snoop on a victim's computer. The malicious program can log keystrokes and take screenshots. In the past, said the EFF, activists have been targeted through YouTube and Facebook and have been subject to a variety of phishing attacks. Analysis of the latest Trojan led the EFF to conclude that it was the work of the same group that was behind earlier attacks. In particular, it said, data gathered by the malicious program deposits it on a site controlled by the Syrian government. "For Syrian activists, poor security practices can have potentially disastrous consequences," said the EFF.Concern over Leicestershire computer virus scam 12 April 2011 A scam in which computer users are told their machine has a virus has prompted a warning from Leicestershire Police. A caller claiming to be from Microsoft tells the householder they must download a programme to cure the virus. The person also asks for bank details to pay a subscription to prevent further viruses. Police said all unsolicited offers should be treated with caution. The programme gives access to information on the machine. The force said checks had established the computers were never infected. Sgt John Weston said: "The callers sound very plausible and in most cases they are aware of the victim's name and address. "... We would advise anyone contacted in similar circumstances to never give out their bank details and never allow the caller access to their computer."Computer virus scam warning from PSNI 11 April 2011 The virus monitored activity on users' computers The PSNI have warned computer users to be wary of scams that appear to be aimed at gaining control of their machines and their personal details. Police said a number of people had reported that their computers were infected with a virus which monitored activity on the computer. The users were telephoned by someone claiming to be from a computer company who directed them to a website where the virus installed itself on their machines. Details of the computer user's online activity and personal details, including banking details, could then be accessed. A police spokesman said users should consult "a reputable dealer" for advice about protecting their PCs from viruses. "A range of anti-virus software is available. Some of the products are free, while some offer increased levels of protection," he said. "Do not be tempted to give control of your computer to people you do not know and never give personal or financial details in response to telephone calls or emails. "If you bank online, your bank will usually have advice on its website about safety." The spokesman said if someone is unsure of the identity of a caller they should ask for a contact number or an alternative way to verify their details. "If you still remain unsure then simply end the call and do not give any of your details." Police have also warned that similar scams have been reported in various places in the Republic of Ireland.Computer virus scammers 'sounded so professional' 15 November 2010 Ms Fawcett spent an hour on the phone before she refused to hand over credit card details When the warning message flashed up on the screen of Gail Fawcett's laptop, she immediately feared the worst. The pop-up suggested her three-month-old computer was at risk and directed her to update her security settings by downloading a file. Moments later, the mother-of-one's phone rang and a man claiming to be from Windows Support told her the laptop had a virus. "It was really convincing," says the 37-year-old research manager from south London. "They had my details without me giving my name and address. I asked how they knew I was online and he said they could tell when something had been downloaded. "He told me it was not performing at full speed and that it could crash at any moment. We were on the phone for an hour while he took me through various files in my hard drive." Whenever Ms Fawcett began to doubt the caller's authenticity, he would reassure her - at one point asking his supervisor to take over. "They sounded so professional," she said. 'Freaked out' She was then directed to another website and it was explained that for a £70 annual fee, her computer could be instantly wiped clean of viruses. "I was totally freaked out. I didn't hand over any money but it was the thought it could happen." After Ms Fawcett refused to give her credit card details, the caller finished the conversation by saying she should take time to think about it. However, afterwards, she tried a web search for the name of the website she had been directed to - and got a string of results identifying the site with a type of "rogue anti-spyware". A friend has since checked her laptop and says initial indications are that nothing is amiss. However, Ms Fawcett says the experience has left her nervous of using the web, where previously she would have been happy to browse and shop online. "Even having the laptop back made me anxious. It feels like other people have a window into your home." Tony Neate, managing director of internet advice service Get Safe Online, said this was a typical tactic of an organised scam. "If you download some sort of trojan that can take over your computer, it can find registration documents from software you may have signed up for. "Once they have a name, address and phone number, they can say they have been monitoring your computer." However, Mr Neate said a firm could only monitor a computer if they have planted a device in it which allows it to do so. To do this without permission would be illegal. And he gave the following advice:First human 'infected with computer virus' By Rory Cellan-Jones 27 May 2010 A British scientist says he is the first man in the world to become infected with a computer virus. Dr Mark Gasson from the University of Reading had a chip inserted in his hand which was then infected with a virus. The device, which enables him to pass through security doors and activate his mobile phone, is a sophisticated version of ID chips used to tag pets. In trials, Dr Gasson showed that the chip was able to pass on the computer virus to external control systems. If other implanted chips had then connected to the system they too would have been corrupted, he said. Medical alert Dr Gasson admits that the test is a proof of principle but he thinks it has important implications for a future where medical devices such as pacemakers and cochlear implants become more sophisticated, and risk being contaminated by other human implants. "With the benefits of this type of technology come risks. We may improve ourselves in some way but much like the improvements with other technologies, mobile phones for example, they become vulnerable to risks, such as security problems and computer viruses." He also added: "Many people with medical implants also consider them to be integrated into their concept of their body, and so in this context it is appropriate to talk in terms of people themselves being infected by computer viruses." However, Dr Gasson predicts that wider use will be made of implanted technology. "This type of technology has been commercialised in the United States as a type of medical alert bracelet, so that if you're found unconscious you can be scanned and your medical history brought up." Professor Rafael Capurro of the Steinbeis-Transfer-Institute of Information Ethics in Germany told BBC News that the research was "interesting". "If someone can get online access to your implant, it could be serious," he said. Cosmetic surgery Professor Capurro contributed to a 2005 ethical study for the European Commission that looked at the development of digital implants and possible abuse of them. "From an ethical point of view, the surveillance of implants can be both positive and negative," he said. "Surveillance can be part of medical care, but if someone wants to do harm to you, it could be a problem." In addition, he said, that there should be caution if implants with surveillance capabilities started to be used outside of a medical setting. However, Dr Gasson believes that there will be a demand for these non-essential applications, much as people pay for cosmetic surgery. "If we can find a way of enhancing someone's memory or their IQ then there's a real possibility that people will choose to have this kind of invasive procedure." Dr Gasson works at the University of Reading's School of Systems Engineering and will present the results of his research at the International Symposium for Technology and Society in Australia next month. Professor Capurro will also talk at the event.South Central Ambulance Service hit by computer virus 10 June 2010 A virus has hit parts of the computer system used by South Central Ambulance Service (SCAS). The problem first occurred on Tuesday but has not affected the parts used to deal with 999 calls, the trust said. However it could take several days to eradicate the virus, which has mainly affected email systems. The trust said: "It is important to stress that this virus has not affected our 999 systems and has had no impact on patient care or confidential data." SCAS covers Hampshire, Berkshire, Oxfordshire and Buckinghamshire. In a statement it said: "We can reassure members of the public dialling 999 that they will not notice any effect on the services provided. "The organisation has comprehensive contingency plans in place which have been seamlessly and swiftly implemented, ensuring there is no impact on patient care. "We are working with our IT providers to rectify the problems as quickly as possible." It said the service was operating as normal.Bushehr port: Seven ships ablaze in latest Iran mystery fires 15 July 2020 Local media reported that wooden boats known as Lenj caught fire At least seven boats have caught fire at a shipyard in the port of Bushehr in southern Iran, state media report. The head of the local crisis management organisation told Irna news agency that the blaze had been contained and that no casualties had been reported. The cause was not clear, but it is the latest in a series of mysterious incidents in Iran in recent weeks. They have included explosions and fires at a missile facility, a power plant, a medical clinic and a nuclear complex. The incidents have led to speculation about a campaign of sabotage. On Monday, there was a fire at an industrial zone near the north-eastern city of Mashhad. Officials said six gas storage tanks caught fire, and that one exploded. The previous day, a fire broke out at a petrochemical facility in the south-western Mahshahr area which was blamed on an oil leak. And on Saturday, several gas cylinders exploded inside the basement of an apartment building in Tehran, the capital's fire department said. Iranian officials have said they are looking into whether sabotage by foreign powers or domestic opposition groups may have been the cause of earlier blasts at the Natanz uranium enrichment plant on 2 July and the Khojir missile production facility on 26 June. In 2010, a computer virus widely believed to have been developed by the United States and Israel was used to attack machinery at Natanz.NI computer networks 'may be infected' by virus By Vincent Kearney 15 May 2017 Police have said it's a matter of when, not if, hackers target Northern Ireland in a large-scale attack Northern Ireland computer networks may have been infected by a virus that plunged parts of the NHS elsewhere in the UK into chaos, police have said. The same virus may have infiltrated systems in NI, but not yet been activated, said the PSNI. The warning follows Friday's cyber-attack which affected more than 200,000 victims in 150 countries. The ransomware virus locked files and demanded payment to allow access and avoid data being destroyed. The PSNI said it was working with national and international law enforcement agencies to reduce any risk to computer networks in Northern Ireland. The police have also urged public and private sector organisations and businesses to help combat the threat of a cyber attack. Vigilance urged Det Ch Insp Douglas Grant, who heads up the PSNI cyber crime unit, said there is no evidence yet that the virus has infiltrated computer networks in Northern Ireland. But he said that did not mean Northern Ireland has not been targeted. "Thankfully we haven't experienced any of this current strain, but we must be vigilant because it could come to Northern Ireland at any point and it could have infections in our systems at the moment that just haven't activated," said Det Ch Insp Grant. The PSNI said its cyber crime centre would continue to actively participate "in the national co-ordinated response to this attack and we would encourage all local businesses and public services to take immediate steps to protect their systems and reduce their vulnerability. "We would also recommend that businesses and industries join the local Cyber Information Sharing Partnership (CISP) so they can receive the most up to date threat and mitigation information to help protect their cyber security." Targeting 'on daily basis' The police said further information was available via the National Cyber Security Centre and appealed to anyone who believes they may be victims of cyber-attack to contact them. The National Cyber Security Centre has advised companies to: The police say organisations and individuals in Northern Ireland are being targeted on a daily basis by cyber criminals trying to steal data or commit fraud or blackmail. They say it is a matter of when, not if, hackers target Northern Ireland in a large-scale attack.Global virus fear prompts update for old Windows 16 May 2019 The Wannacry worm locked up thousands of computers all over the world Fears of a massive global computer virus outbreak have prompted Microsoft to issue security updates for very old versions of its Windows software. One patch is for Windows XP, which debuted in 2001 and Microsoft stopped supporting in 2014. Microsoft said the patch closed a hole that could be used to spread a virus. Malicious hackers exploiting it could kick off a worldwide outbreak like the 2017 Wannacry worm, which hit thousands of machines. Risky connection It was "highly likely" the vulnerability would be exploited if it went unpatched, wrote Simon Pope, Microsoft's director of incident response, in a blog about the bug. He said the bug could be exploited simply by connecting to a vulnerable machine over the internet. "Any future malware that exploits this vulnerability could propagate from vulnerable computer to vulnerable computer in a similar way as the WannaCry malware spread across the globe in 2017," he said. This danger prompted the release of a patch that closes the loophole in: Market industry data suggests about 3.75% of desktop machines currently use XP or its variants. Technology news site Wired said the wide range of vulnerable versions of Windows meant "millions" of machines were at risk. Microsoft no longer supports Windows XP but many people and companies still use it Although Microsoft ended support for Windows XP more than five years ago, the last software patch it issued for the operating system was released just prior to the Wannacry outbreak. "We strongly advise that all affected systems... should be updated as soon as possible," said Mr Pope. Microsoft said there was no evidence that cyber-criminals were currently exploiting the loophole. People and organisations using Windows 8 or 10 were not at risk, Microsoft said. Independent security expert Graham Cluley said the creation of the patch for XP showed the threat of a virulent worm was "serious". Many old and vulnerable systems were still "riskily" connected to the internet, he said, urging people to update swiftly.Coronavirus: Cyber-attacks hit hospital construction companies 13 May 2020 The newly completed NHS Nightingale Hospital Birmingham Interserve helped build Two companies involved in building emergency coronavirus hospitals have been hit by cyber-attacks this month. Interserve, which helped build Birmingham's NHS Nightingale hospital, and Bam Construct, which delivered the Yorkshire and the Humber's, have reported the incidents to authorities. Earlier this month, the government warned healthcare groups involved in the response to the virus were being targeted by malicious actors. The separate attacks were not linked. But Bam Construct said the "significant" cyber-attack on it "forms part of the wave of attacks on public and private organisations supporting the national effort on Covid-19". A spokesman said the company had shut down its website and some other systems as a precaution, after being hit by a computer virus. But its day-to-day business had remained largely unaffected. "Our own precautions have had more of an effect on our normal working procedures than the virus itself," he said. Emergency Nightingale hospitals have been built quickly by converting spaces such as convention centres Interserve, meanwhile, said "some operational services may be affected". But it was working with the National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) to "contain and remedy the situation" and had notified the Information Commissioner's Office and warned its employees, former employees, clients and suppliers to "exercise heightened vigilance during this time". The outsourcing company also provides facilities management and other services and holds a range of contracts with the government beyond the construction sector. Earlier this month, the NCSC warned of attempts to attack healthcare and research organisations during the pandemic. And the government warned malicious actors were "seeking to undermine the global response to this unprecedented global health crisis endanger lives".Ransomware attack takes US maritime base offline 2 January 2020 A computer virus forced a US-regulated maritime facility offline for more than 30 hours, the country's coast guard has revealed. Ransomware interrupted cameras, door-access control systems and critical monitoring systems at the site. The agency did not reveal the name or the location of the facility targeted by the attack. Officials said they believed the ransomware was sent in a malicious email link, clicked by an employee. Technology explained: what is ransomware? The US Coast Guard (USCG) issued a security bulletin on 16 December, urging other bases to take measures to prevent further attacks. "Once the embedded malicious link in the email was clicked by an employee, the ransomware allowed for a threat actor to access significant enterprise information technology (IT) network files, and encrypt them, preventing the facility's access to critical files," it said. "The virus further burrowed into the industrial control systems that monitor and control cargo transfer and encrypted files critical to process operations." The BBC has contacted the USCG for more details. Ransomware attacks were a significant problem during 2019, when several companies and governments were targeted. The city of New Orleans declared a state of emergency in December after suspicious activity was detected on its network. Once officials confirmed they were under attack, servers and computers were closed down. Weeks earlier, Virtual Care Provider, which offers technology services to nursing homes, was hit by a ransomware attack that encrypted patients' health records. Hackers demanded $14m (£10.6m) to restore access to the hijacked servers.Notorious GandCrab hacker group 'returns from retirement’ By Joe Tidy 24 September 2019 The GandCrab crew previously built bespoke ransomware for other cyber-criminals An infamous hacker group that was thought to have disbanded appears to be behind a wave of new attacks being carried out across the world. Researchers at cyber-security company Secureworks say they reached their conclusion after analysing a new strain of computer virus. They claim the culprits are the GandCrab crew. The gang is thought to be Russian and previously sold customised ransomware to other criminals. Their code had scrambled data on victims' computers and demanded blackmail payments to decrypt it. It is estimated to have affected more than 1.5 million machines, with hospitals among those affected. In May, the group had surprised many in the security industry when it announced it was "retiring" after earning more than $2bn (£1.6bn) from the trade. Someone claiming to be part of the group claimed it had "cashed out" its earnings and quit the business. It had been active since about January 2018. But Secureworks has linked the group to a new strain of ransomware called REvil or Sondinokibi . The malware has caused major disruption to hundreds of dental practices in the US as well as 22 Texas municipalities . Researchers say not only is the code similar to that of the earlier attacks but that it contains similar mistakes. Don Smith, director of Secureworks Counter Threat Unit, said his team had the group "bang to rights". "We weren't surprised the group resurfaced," he added. "GandCrab offered a good return for criminal actors. It's unlikely an existing and proficient group would just walk away from that. "It's possible that they wanted to reduce the overall attention that was focused on the GandCrab 'brand' and have relaunched with a new product."Eurofins Scientific: Forensic services firm paid ransom after cyber-attack By Danny Shaw 5 July 2019 The UK's biggest provider of forensic services has paid a ransom to criminals after its IT systems were disrupted in a cyber-attack, BBC News has learned. Eurofins Scientific was infected with a ransomware computer virus a month ago, which led British police to suspend work with the global testing company. At the time, the firm described the attack as "highly sophisticated". BBC News has not been told how much money was involved in the ransom payment or when it was paid. The National Crime Agency (NCA) said it was a "matter for the victim" as to whether a ransom had been paid. The agency, which is investigating the attack, said: "As there is an ongoing criminal investigation, it would be inappropriate to comment." Eurofins previously said the attack was "well-resourced" but three weeks later said its operations were "returning to normal". It said it would also not comment on whether a ransom had been paid or not. It added it was "collaborating with law enforcement" in the UK and elsewhere. The ransomware attack hit the company , which accounts for over half of forensic science provision in the UK, on the first weekend in June. Ransomware is a computer virus that prevents users from accessing their system or personal files. Messages sent by the perpetrators demand a payment in order to unlock the frozen accounts. Eurofins deals with over 70,000 criminal cases in the UK each year. It carries out DNA testing, toxicology analysis, firearms testing and computer forensics for police forces across the UK. Forensic science work has been carried out by private firms and police laboratories in England and Wales since the closure of the government's Forensic Science Service in 2012. 'Court hearings postponed' An emergency police response to the cyber-attack was led by the National Police Chiefs' Council (NPCC) to manage the flow of forensic submissions so DNA and blood samples which needed urgent testing were sent to other suppliers. It has led to delays in forensic science provision and is understood to have caused some court hearings to be postponed because information on the results of analysis conducted by Eurofins was not accessible. The ransom is likely to have been paid between 10 June, when Eurofins issued a lengthy statement about the attack, and June 24 when it published an optimistic update, saying it had "identified the variant of the malware used" in the attack and had strengthened cyber-security. It said: "We are continuing to work intensively with leading cybersecurity experts to further secure our current systems and infrastructure and to add enhanced security features and measures to protect our systems and data." "The investigations conducted so far by our internal and external IT forensics experts have not found evidence of any unauthorised theft or transfer of confidential client data." 'Reassurances' The NPCC refused to comment on the ransom payment but police sources said "excellent progress" had been made in dealing with the fall-out of the cyber attack. Police and law enforcement agencies in the UK are still not submitting new samples to Eurofins for analysis but the company says it is working towards giving them the assurances they need for fresh work to restart. The Crown Prosecution Service said: "We are working to make sure all hearings remain fair and based on reliable evidence. While investigations are ongoing, prosecutors will assess the impact on a case by case basis. "Cases where forensic evidence does not play a major role will continue as ‎usual if all parties agree. "If ‎test results provided by Eurofins are central, we will seek to adjourn cases for the shortest possible period." Eurofins is the third major forensic science problem to hit law enforcement following the collapse of Key Forensic Services and a criminal investigation into alleged irregularities at Randox Testing.Eurofins Scientific: Cyber-attack leads to backlog of 20,000 forensic samples By Danny Shaw 16 August 2019 A cyber-attack on the UK's biggest forensic services provider led to a backlog of 20,000 samples, the BBC has learned. Eurofins Scientific was targeted by a "highly-sophisticated" ransomware virus in June, which led British police to suspend work with the company. The National Police Chiefs' Council (NPCC) is now clearing the backlog, which includes blood and DNA specimens. It warned of delays to police investigations and court cases. The NPCC said it decided three weeks ago that it was safe for police forces to use the firm again. Since then, it has managed to reduce the backlog to 15,000. The "overwhelming majority" of cases - which include specimens from suspects and evidence from crime scenes - will be cleared within two months, the police body added. 'Highest possible priority' The NPCC lead for the forensic marketplace, Assistant Chief Constable Paul Gibson, said: "The security and integrity of the criminal justice system is of the highest possible priority, which meant we had to take stringent steps to ensure that police data had, firstly, not been manipulated or changed and, secondly, was suitably protected for the future." Eurofins carries out DNA testing, toxicology analysis, firearms testing and computer forensics for police forces across the UK. It deals with more than 70,000 criminal cases in the UK each year. Last month, the BBC was told the global testing firm paid a ransom to the perpetrators of the cyber-attack to restore access to its computer network. The ransomware attack hit the company, which accounts for more than half of forensic science provision in the UK, on the first weekend in June. Ransomware is a computer virus that prevents users from accessing their system or personal files. Messages sent by the perpetrators demand a payment in order to unlock the frozen accounts. The use of private firms and police laboratories to carry out forensic science work was stepped up after the closure of the state-owned Forensic Science Service in 2012. The National Crime Agency is still investigating the attack.Nato: Cyber-attack on one nation is attack on all 27 August 2019 Nato Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg says all 29 member countries would respond to a serious cyber-attack on one of them. Writing in Prospect Magazine , he said such an incident would trigger a "collective defence commitment", known as Article 5 of its founding treaty. Article 5 has not been triggered since the 9/11 terror attacks on the US in 2001. Nato's members include the US, Canada and many European countries. "We have designated cyber-space a domain in which Nato will operate and defend itself as effectively as it does in the air, on land, and at sea," he wrote in his article. It's not the first time Mr Stoltenberg has made this claim. As an example of a major cyber-incident, he mentioned the 2017 Wannacry ransomware attack which crippled the NHS in the UK and caused havoc around the world, although this did not trigger Article 5 at the time. US President Donald Trump has previously criticised the 70-year-old military alliance, saying the US contributes more funding to it than any other member country. Analysis by BBC Security Correspondent Gordon Corera The idea that an attack on one is an attack on all underpins Nato - but adapting it to cyber-space raises complicated issues. In the Cold War, a missile launch or a tank column advancing would have left little doubt of what constituted an attack. But in the cyber-world it is not always so easy. When Estonia saw its infrastructure hit through cyber-space in 2007, it was blamed on Russia. But was it the Russian state or "patriotic hackers" operating within Russia? And at whose direction? Another issue is the threshold for considering something an attack. Russia is accused of turning off a power station in (non-Nato member) Ukraine in December 2015. The crippling of infrastructure is one possibility for reaching a threshold for Article 5. But what of 2017 when Russia is alleged to have launched the Notpetya computer virus against Ukraine but which then spilled over into other countries (including Nato members) damaging businesses at a cost of billions of dollars?Technology explained: what is ransomware? Computer viruses that threaten to delete your files unless you pay a ransom are known as ransomware. Security experts have warned that ransomware is the fastest growing form of computer virus. Like other computer viruses, it usually finds its way onto a device by exploiting a security hole in vulnerable software or by tricking somebody into installing it. BBC Technology reporter Zoe Kleinman explains what ransomware does. Video journalist: Chris Fox 27 October 2017 BBC News TechnologyBritish hacker Marcus Hutchins loses bid to omit 'intoxicated' testimony 14 February 2019 Marcus Hutchins faces 10 charges in total but denies any wrongdoing British cyber-security expert Marcus Hutchins - who has been accused of writing virus code - has lost a legal bid to suppress some evidence prosecutors want to use against him. The evidence is comments he made in an interview after the FBI arrested him. He wanted the testimony discounted, claiming he gave it when "intoxicated". A court ruling issued earlier this week threw out the request saying there was no evidence that he was under the influence of drugs. FBI agents arrested Mr Hutchins on 2 August 2017 at Las Vegas's McCarran International Airport as he was starting his journey home after attending the Def Con hacker conference. He has been held in the US ever since his arrest. He faces 10 charges related to malware, or malicious software, including a program called Kronos which is designed to steal banking credentials. He has pleaded not guilty to the charges. Judge JP Stadtmueller wrote: "Hutchins appeared to be alert, engaged, co-ordinated, and coherent," in his ruling, tech news site Ars Technica recorded. The judge added that there was no evidence that Mr Hutchins was under the influence of drugs but was rather suffering a "terrible hangover". This did not render him unable to understand the procedure or be fully aware of why he was being quizzed, said the judge. The ruling also said he was informed of all relevant rights prior to the interview by the agents who arrested him. Mr Hutchins, from Ilfracombe in Devon, came to prominence for his pivotal role in preventing the spread of the Wannacry computer virus in early 2017.Russian man pleads guilty over $500m malware scam 23 March 2017 The Citadel Trojan lets criminals steal bank account details and hold files to ransom. A Russian man faces up to 10 years in jail for spreading a computer virus that cost victims more than $500m (£401m). Mark Vartanyan, 29, developed and distributed the Citadel Trojan, which lets criminals steal bank account details and hold files to ransom. US prosecutors said it had infected about 11 million computers worldwide. He pleaded guilty to one count of computer fraud, in a court in Atlanta, after being extradited from Norway. Launched in 2011, Citadel was marketed on invitation-only, Russian-language internet forums used by cybercriminals. Its users had targeted the computer networks of major financial and government institutions around the world, prosecutors said. 'Illicit functionality' Vartanyan admitted to the "development, improvement, maintenance and distribution" of Citadel between 2012 and 2014 while living in Ukraine and Norway. Operating under the alias Kolypto, he uploaded "numerous electronic files" that consisted of Citadel malware, components, updates and patches, as well as customer information. Earlier in March, David LeValley, special agent at the FBI Atlanta Office, said Vartanyan's arrest removed "a significant player" from the resources available to cybercriminals. "We must continue to impose real costs on criminals who believe they are protected by geographic boundaries and can prey on the American people," he said. Vartanyan agreed to cooperate with prosecutors in exchange for a reduced prison term. He will be sentenced in June. In September 2015, a US court sentenced Russian citizen Dimitry Belorossov to four years and six months in prison after he admitted distributing and installing Citadel on to computers. The Department of Justice said its investigation into the creator of Citadel continued.Cyber-attack disrupts distribution of multiple US newspapers 30 December 2018 An LA Times printing plant was subject to a malware attack on Friday Several US newspapers suffered major printing and delivery disruptions on Saturday following a cyber-attack. The attack led to delayed distribution of The Los Angeles Times, Chicago Tribune, Baltimore Sun and other titles belonging to Tribune Publishing. The company said it first detected the malware on Friday, which hit papers sharing the same printing plant. The attack is believed to have come from outside the US, the LA Times said . West Coast editions of the Wall Street Journal and The New York Times, which share the same production platform in Los Angeles, were also affected. "We believe the intention of the attack was to disable infrastructure, more specifically servers, as opposed to looking to steal information," an anonymous source with knowledge of the attack told the LA Times. Tribune Publishing spokeswoman Marisa Kollias confirmed this in a statement, saying the virus hurt back-office systems used to publish and produce "newspapers across our properties". "Every market across the company was impacted," Ms Kollias said, refusing to give more specifications on the disruptions, according to the LA Times. Other publications owned by the company include the New York Daily News, Orlando Sentinel and the Annapolis Capital-Gazette, whose staff were the targets of a deadly shooting earlier this year . Another publication, the Fort Lauderdale Sun-Sentinel was also "crippled this weekend by a computer virus that shut down production and hampered phone lines," according to a story on its website. "We are aware of reports of a potential cyber incident affecting several news outlets and are working with our government and industry partners to better understand the situation," a Department of Homeland Security official said in a statement. Investigators at the Federal Bureau of Investigations were not immediately available for comment.'Asian female' with malware arrested at Trump's Mar-a-Lago 3 April 2019 Mar-a-Lago is a private members club as well as the Trump family's winter getaway. A woman carrying two Chinese passports and a device with computer malware allegedly lied to enter US President Donald Trump's Mar-a-Lago club. The woman, Yujing Zhang, 32, told security she was at the Florida club to go to the pool, according to a criminal complaint filed in US District Court. "Due to a potential language barrier issue," staff believed she was related to a club member and let her in. Mr Trump was in Palm Beach at the time of the incident on Saturday 30 March. Mr Trump is known to make frequent trips to his Palm Beach property Ms Zhang - who was described in the affidavit as an "Asian female" - is charged with making false statements to a federal officer and illegally entering a restricted area. According to the court documents, upon entry to the club Ms Zhang changed her story, telling a front-desk receptionist she was there to attend a "United Nations Chinese American Association" event. The receptionist, who knew that such an event had been scheduled, became suspicious of Ms Zhang. The suspect was transported off the property for further questioning. She told agents she had been instructed by a friend, identified only as "Charles", to travel from Shanghai, China, to Palm Beach to attend the purported United Nations event, but did not provide any more details, according to court documents. She said "Charles" had encouraged her to attempt to speak to a member of the president's family about Chinese-American economic relations, said the affidavit. Secret service agent Samuel Ivanovich said Ms Zhang carried four mobile phones, a laptop, an external hard drive and a thumb drive containing a computer virus, but no swim suit. In the court document, Mr Ivanovich notes that Ms Zhang "freely and without difficulty conversed" in English, becoming "verbally aggressive" with authorities as the investigation progressed. The Secret Service said in a statement that it "does not determine who is invited or welcome at Mar-a-Lago; this is the responsibility of the host entity. "The Mar-a-Lago club management determines which members and guests are granted access to the property." Ms Zhang's lawyer has so far declined comment. She will remain in custody until a hearing next week. If convicted, she could face a maximum of five years in prison.Did Donald Trump tweet classified military imagery? Jonathan Marcus @Diplo1 30 August 2019 Donald Trump's latest tweet has potentially set a precedent for classified information being shared by a president President Donald Trump has set a new standard for extraordinary presidential behaviour. Not only has he tweeted what would normally be a highly classified, military-quality satellite image showing the devastation around the launch pad at Iran's main space centre following a significant explosion. He has gone further by apparently taunting the Iranians, insisting the US was not involved in the "catastrophic accident" but also wishing Iran "good luck" in finding out what happened. Was this presidential sarcasm or misinformation? Was he implying that somebody else might indeed have been involved? Or was it just the president's regular habit of responding by saying the first thing that came into his head? It's hard to say. But, as ever, Mr Trump's intervention raises more questions than it answers. For some weeks now experts have been reporting preparations for an Iranian space launch. Commercial satellite imagery of the space centre showed the launch pad being made ready. The mission, according to Iranian reports, was to put a small telecommunications satellite - Nahid 1 - into orbit. Two previous launch attempts at the start of this year had ended in failure. This one, too, appears now to have ended in disaster. The difference, though, is that the full magnitude of the calamity has been revealed by President Trump himself. So what caused Iran's rocket to explode so dramatically on the launchpad? We simply do not know. But there are two obvious answers. Firstly it could have been down to a simple technical malfunction; a problem with fuel or some kind of error in the rocket's manufacture - a faulty weld seam or whatever. These things happen; think back to some of the disasters during America's own space programme. Even the most technologically advanced nations have setbacks. But Iran's track record with launches is very poor. A New York Times article back in February, drawing heavily on interviews with unnamed US officials, suggested that Iran's two earlier failures this year were part of a pattern. It suggested that some 67% of Iran's orbital launch attempts over the past 11 years had failed. It described this as "an astonishingly high number" compared to the average 5% failure rate for comparable launches worldwide." Tensions have been escalating between the US and Iran The article indicated that the Trump administration was moving to reactivate a sabotage programme against Iran's missile efforts by introducing faulty parts into the supply chain and so on. A previous US effort had been phased out by President Obama. So could sabotage be implicated in this latest accident?  Who knows, but Mr Trump himself has only muddied the waters by his Twitter intervention. There is a significant history of external forces attempting to hamper Iran's military research. Israel and the US were involved in efforts to sabotage Iran's uranium enrichment programme using a computer virus. Iranian scientists and technicians have been assassinated. And of course both the US and Israel see Iran's space programme as inextricably linked to its wider missile efforts. However, the most extraordinary aspect of this affair is the president's publication of a normally classified high-resolution satellite image that could only have come from a military source. This has thrown the missile and arms control community on the Twitter-sphere into a frenzy. It is an amazing thing for a US president to do, giving all Washington's enemies a very public insight into its extraordinary intelligence-gathering capabilities.Cyber-attack hits police forensic work By Danny Shaw 21 June 2019 Police have suspended work with the UK's biggest private forensic company following a cyber-attack on the firm. The suspension has led to delays in forensic testing, which could impact on court cases. Eurofins Forensic Services carries out DNA testing, toxicology analysis, firearms testing and computer forensics for police forces across the UK. Its parent company, Eurofins, suffered a ransomware attack on 1 or 2 June, which is under criminal investigation. Ransomware is a computer virus that prevents users from accessing their system or personal files and demands ransom payment in order to unlock access. It is the latest in a series of major forensic science problems to hit police forces since the closure of the government-owned service in England and Wales in 2012. An emergency police response has been put in place, led by the National Police Chiefs' Council (NPCC), which took the decision to "temporarily suspend" all submissions to Eurofins. Eurofins, which caters for over 50% of the UK market, deals with over 70,000 criminal cases in the UK each year. A group of senior officers will ensure the most serious crimes are given priority, as well as ensuring other forensic providers aren't overloaded with submissions. "Our priority is to minimise the impact on the criminal justice system," said the NPCC lead for forensics, Chief Constable James Vaughan. "It is too early to fully quantify the impact but we are working at pace with partners to understand and mitigate the risks." The Crown Prosecution Service said a police investigation was ongoing, but at this stage there was "no evidence to suggest that previous convictions were unsafe". A spokesperson added: "The CPS is assessing current cases to identify any impact on criminal trials as a result of this attack, and will ensure all necessary action is taken to allow them to proceed fairly." Eurofins said the attack "caused disruption to many of its IT systems in several countries" in a statement on it website. It said it believed the attack was carried out by "highly sophisticated well-resourced perpetrators" and the ransomware involved appears to have been a "new malware variant". The National Crime Agency is conducting an investigation into the cyber attack, supported by the National Cyber Security Centre. A government spokesperson said: "We are working closely with law enforcement and justice partners to investigate the sources of the attack and minimise any impact on our criminal justice system." Forensic science work has been carried out by private firms and police laboratories in England and Wales since the closure of the government's Forensic Science Service in 2012. Last year 40 drug-driving offences were quashed and thousands of cases were reviewed after data was allegedly manipulated at Randox Testing Services. Another company - Key Forensic Services - collapsed in January 2018, while the Met Police also had to carry out a review after a forensic scientist apparently botched examinations. Eurofins has seven laboratories in the UK - Teddington, south-west London; Leeds Dock, in Leeds; Risley, Cheshire; Wakefield, west Yorkshire; Culham, Oxfordshire; Fordham, Cambridgeshire; Tamworth, Staffordshire. It also provides a range of other screening services to industry, agriculture and the pharmaceutical sector. The impact on these services is unclear.Poker players targeted by card-watching malware 18 September 2015 The malware spies on the cards being dealt to online poker players Online poker players are being targeted by a computer virus that spies on their virtual cards. The software shares the cards with the virus's creators who then join the same game and try to fleece the victim. The sneaky malware has been found lurking in software designed to help poker fans play better, said the security firm that found it. The software also targets other useful information on a victim's computer such as login names and passwords. Card counter The malware targets players of the Pokerstars and Full Tilt Poker sites, said Robert Lipovsky, a security researcher at Eset, in a blogpost . When it infects a machine, the software monitors the PC's activity and springs to life when a victim has logged in to either one of the two poker sites. It then starts taking screenshots of their activity and the cards they are dealt. Screenshots are then sent to the attacker. The images show the hand the player has been dealt as well as their player ID. This, said Eset, allows the attacker to search the sites for that player and join their game. Using information about a victim's hand gives the attacker a significant advantage. "We are unsure whether the perpetrator plays the games manually or in some automated way," wrote Mr Lipovsky. Eset found the Windows malware lurking in some well-known file-sharing applications, PC utilities as well as several widely used poker calculators and player databases. Eset said the spyware had been active for several months and most victims were in Eastern Europe, particularly Russia and the Ukraine.Gill Sennett BBC Radio Humberside I'll be back tomorrow from 08:00 with all the latest news, sport, weather and travel. In the meantime, here are five things we didn't know when we got up this morning: Read more about these links.Anaesthetic devices 'vulnerable to hackers' By Chris Baraniuk 10 July 2019 The problem affects anaesthetic machines used in many hospitals around the world A type of anaesthetic machine that has been used in NHS hospitals can be hacked and controlled from afar if left accessible on a hospital computer network, a cyber-security company says. A successful attacker would be able to change the amount of anaesthetic delivered to a patient, CyberMDX said. Alarms designed to alert anaesthetists to any danger could also be silenced. GE Healthcare, which makes the machines, said there was no "direct patient risk". But CyberMDX's research suggested the Aespire and Aestiva 7100 and 7900 devices could be targeted by hackers if left accessible on hospital computer networks. And analysis by BBC News found multiple references online to the Aespire and Aestiva machines being used in NHS Hospitals. Nottingham University Hospitals (NUH) NHS Trust confirmed to the BBC that "a small number" of the devices were currently in use at its facilities, but were being phased out. "None of the anaesthetic machines are connected to the internet or the NUH network so there is very little risk around these machines within NUH," a spokesman told the BBC. NHS Digital said it could not confirm the extent to which the machines were still in use across the NHS. "We are currently assessing the volume of these particular anaesthetic machines in use across England and we will be sharing any subsequent advice with trusts in the coming days," a spokeswoman said. Elad Luz, head of research at CyberMDX, said he was aware of hospitals in the US and Asia that also used the devices. GE Healthcare said it was satisfied a cyber-attack would "not introduce clinical hazard or patient risk". It said this was because anaesthetic devices were "attended" by anaesthetists and would be monitored for any errors. The company told BBC News it did not plan to release any security updates for the anaesthetic machines but hospitals should use secure network protocols to protect them from would-be hackers. Cyber-security expert Ken Munro agreed that medical devices should be isolated within computer networks but added: "It's not, frankly, the case in many hospital networks." And he said GE Healthcare should bear some responsibility for the issue. "GE absolutely have a part to play in this and they absolutely should be building devices with strong security," Mr Munro added. GE Healthcare has responded to the reports of a problem with its machines A malicious hacker may try to gain access to a hospital's network, locate one of the machines and then adjust its settings, said Prof Harold Thimbleby, an expert in medical device cyber-security, at Swansea University. And he gave the example of WannaCry, a ransomware outbreak that spread through NHS computer networks in 2017 , to illustrate how an attack could unfold. "As with WannaCry, a phishing attack can gain access and then an attacker can do what they like," he told BBC News. "Given the worldwide profile of WannaCry, it is amazing vulnerabilities like this are still around." The likelihood of harm being caused to a patient through any hacking of the devices was "incredibly small" said Dr Helgi Johannsson, consultant anaesthetist and Royal College of Anaesthetists Council Member. "Patients should be reassured that their anaesthetist will be monitoring them constantly, and will have received many years of training to rectify immediately the situation of a device failure." A spokeswoman for the UK's Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency said reports of the cyber-security vulnerability were now part of an "ongoing area of investigation". "Patient safety is our highest priority and where necessary we will take action to protect public health," she added. The US Department of Homeland Security's Industrial Control Systems Cyber Emergency Response Team (ICS-CERT) has published an advisory notice about the vulnerability.ATM scammer jailed for seven years as £1.3m remains missing 14 January 2016 The gang used malware to steal more than £1.3m from cash machines A man has been jailed for his part in stealing £1.3m by infecting high street cash machines with a computer virus. Teofil Bortos, 36, of Cheltenham Gardens, Newham, east London, was in a gang that targeted 51 ATMs across England in the space of five days, the Old Bailey heard. Bortos, who admitted conspiracy to defraud ATM provider Cardtronics UK, was sentenced to seven years in prison. None of the stolen cash - £1,373,640 in total - has been recovered. Most of the gang remains at large. Their identities are unknown. Malware The Old Bailey heard that in May 2014, cash was withdrawn in locations including London, Liverpool, Blackpool, Brighton, Bognor Regis and Portsmouth. The scam involved activating malware on ATM computers. Following the attacks, the malware deleted itself and no customer data was compromised. While Bortos was not accused of inserting the malware, the court heard he was in a trusted position in the gang. He was present at 19 cashpoints from which around £191,000 was stolen. Co-conspirator Grigore Paladi, who admitted his guilt, received a five-year prison sentence after an earlier hearing at Southwark Crown Court.Self-destructing virus kills off PCs 5 May 2015 The malware also tries to fool security tools by flooding hard drives with data A computer virus that tries to avoid detection by making the machine it infects unusable has been found. If Rombertik's evasion techniques are triggered, it deletes key files on a computer, making it constantly restart. Analysts said Rombertik was "unique" among malware samples for resisting capture so aggressively. On Windows machines where it goes unnoticed, the malware steals login data and other confidential information. Endless loop Rombertik typically infected a vulnerable machine after a booby-trapped attachment on a phishing message had been opened, security researchers Ben Baker and Alex Chiu, from Cisco, said in a blogpost . Some of the messages Rombertik travels with pose as business enquiry letters from Microsoft. The malware "indiscriminately" stole data entered by victims on any website, the researchers said. And it got even nastier when it spotted someone was trying to understand how it worked. "Rombertik is unique in that it actively attempts to destroy the computer if it detects certain attributes associated with malware analysis," the researchers said. The malware regularly carries out internal checks to see if it is under analysis. If it believes it is, it will attempt to delete an essential Windows system file called the Master Boot Record (MBR). It will then restart the machine which, because the MBR is missing, will go into an endless restart loop. The code replacing the MBR makes the machine print out a message mocking attempts to analyse it. Restoring a PC with its MBR deleted involves reinstalling Windows, which could mean important data is lost. Rombertik also uses other tricks to foil analysis. One involves writing a byte of data to memory 960 million times to overwhelm analysis tools that try to spot malware by logging system activity. Security expert Graham Cluley said destructive viruses such as Rombertik were quite rare. "It's not the norm," he said. "That's because malware these days doesn't want to draw attention to itself, as that works against its typical goal - to lie in wait, stealing information for a long time."Gamers targeted by ransomware virus 13 March 2015 Older games such as Warcraft 3 are also targeted by the malicious program Gamers are being targeted by a computer virus that stops them playing their favourite titles unless they pay a ransom. On infected machines, the malicious program seeks out saved games and other files and encrypts them. A key to unlock encrypted files is only supplied if victims pay at least $500 (£340) in Bitcoins. The malware targets 40 separate games including Call of Duty, World of Warcraft, Minecraft and World of Tanks. Dark web cash The malicious program looks similar to the much more widely distributed Cryptolocker ransomware that has caught out thousands of people over the last couple of years. But analysis of the malware, called Teslacrypt, reveals that it shares no code with Cryptolocker and appears to be have been created by a different cybercrime group. Researcher Vadim Kotov from security firm Bromium said the file was catching people out via a website its creators had managed to compromise. The site involved is a Wordpress blog that is inadvertently hosting a file that abuses a loophole in Flash to infect visitors. One a machine is infected, wrote Mr Kotov , the malware looks for 185 different file extensions. In particular, it seeks out files associated with many popular video games and online services such as Steam that give people access to them. "Interestingly, although these are all popular games, none of them matches any particular 'Top Sellers' or 'Most Played' chart, " said Mr Kotov. "They could just be games the developer loves to play." Files holding gamers' profiles, maps, saves and modified versions of games are all sought by Teslacrypt, he said. He said anyone who tries to outwit the malware by uninstalling a game they obtained via an online service may end up disappointed. "Often it's not possible to restore this kind of data even after re-installing a game via Steam," he wrote. Once target files are encrypted the malware pops up a window telling victims they have a few days to pay up and retrieve their data. To decrypt, victims can either pay $500 in Bitcoins or $1,000 in Paypal My Cash payment cards. The virus tells victims to send payment details to an address located on the Tor anonymous browsing network. The encryption system used by Teslacrypt has yet to be cracked meaning victims would have to turn to back-ups to restore scrambled files.The cyber kidnappers: The day hackers hijacked my phone By Jon Manel 4 March 2016 The message Ken Main received on his company computer demanding a ransom for the release of his data. Something wasn't right about the phone screen. It had gone dark. That's when Nick Harvey examined it more closely. It looked odd. And it was then that he saw the message. His smart phone had, in effect, been hijacked and he was being asked to pay a ransom. "My device had been locked", he told BBC Radio 4's PM Programme. He was being instructed "to send some money via a voucher code to get the phone unlocked". Ken Main knows how Nick felt. It happened to him with the computers at his hairdressing salon in Glasgow. "It was a pale blue screen with the message right in the middle," he explained. "If we wanted the information back we would have to pay a ransom." Cash call They had both become victims of what is known as ransomware - a type of computer virus which unlocks the users out of their computers or phones and demands money for the return of the files. American police paid a ransom to hackers who encrypted the department's data. "It's like somebody breaking into your house", Ken said." It was a message which kind of created the same sort of emotional fear and then you start thinking 'God, what happens if I can't get this information back?'" You are probably now trying to guess how much Ken and Nick were being asked to pay. It is possibly quite a lot lower than you would think. "They asked me for $50 or €50" Nick recalled. For Ken it was slightly more. "They were looking for a ransom of $350 initially," he said. "When we contacted them by email, they put that up to €1000." The demands are set at what is regarded as a payable level, according to Jornt van der Wiel from the security software company, Kaspersky Lab. Ken Main's hairdressing business. They tend to be for "the amount of money that people are still willing to pay in order to get their files back." He explained, for a small business, "Sometimes it's cheaper for the company just to pay the ransom than to put back the backup because that in the end costs more". Police files Nick Harvey did not have to part with any money. He managed to get his phone working again although he did lose some data. Ken, however, felt he had no choice but to pay up. "I said, 'Well I need that bloody information back. I've got a business to run here.' I think any businessman in my position would say 'Yes! Let's do it', because I've got no other way of getting information to rebuild that database." According to Mr van der Wiel, ransomware can enter your computer via malicious email attachments. His advice is not to open any file which you are suspicious about. He says there can also be a problem if the latest "security patches" on your internet browser have not been installed. Technology explained: what is ransomware? Such are the difficulties that a ransomware attack can create; even those responsible for enforcing the law have given into the criminals. When the systems at the police department in Tewksbury, Massachusetts, were affected, computer experts tried everything but to no avail. "We couldn't restore it from an external back-up" Chief Timothy Sheehan said "because that was also corrupted and the taped back-up we had was at least 18 months old. We realised we were in a perfect storm. We were in a very bad situation." The police department paid the ransom via a third party. "Ultimately we decided that in our particular situation we should take the shot of paying the 500 dollars in bitcoin and see if we got the decryption key returned to us and we could return all of the data that was encrypted back to its normal status." Many ransomware gangs demand payment in bitcoins Chief Sheehan conceded that it meant paying money to criminals and he now wants to highlight the threat ransomware poses. Data loss According to Raj Samani, Intel Security's chief technology officer in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, those behind ransomware are making hundreds of millions of dollars. He said there has been "enormous growth in ransomware certainly over the last 12 months". He believes people in the UK are particularly vulnerable. There are many different types of ransomware viruses but according to Mr Samani "in almost every single type we look at, the UK is either second or third on that list, so I would argue that the UK is targeted disproportionately  with regards to the number of internet users that we have." Security experts have found ways of unlocking some forms of ransomware but those behind the cyber criminals are developing more sophisticated viruses too. Back in the hairdressers in Glasgow, Ken Main has no regrets about paying the ransom. However, it didn't solve all his problems. Do not think paying up means all will end well. "I would say 80 to 90% of the information was corrupted" he said. "In terms of hard cash income I would say we were probably down by about £20,000."Iran nuclear talks: Israel denies bugging venues 11 June 2015 Austria and Switzerland have opened investigations into bugging at the talks Israel has denied it bugged talks on Iran's nuclear programme, after a security company said a computer virus hacked the venues of the negotiations. The Russian firm Kaspersky Lab said the hacking at three European hotels was so sophisticated, it must have been created by a government . World powers and Iran have been holding talks on the fate of Iran's nuclear programme ahead of a 30 June deadline. Switzerland and Austria have both opened investigations into the hacks. The US, UK, France, Germany, Russia and China are seeking a final agreement to curtail Iran's nuclear programme in exchange for sanctions relief. They fear Iran wants to build a nuclear bomb - something Iran strongly denies. Israel is not a party to the negotiations although it feels particularly threatened by the possibility of a nuclear-armed Iran. Austrian investigators are looking into a hack at the Palais Coburg hotel in Vienna In March, the Wall Street Journal reported concerns by US officials that Israel had been spying on the behind-closed-doors talks. At the time, Israel denied the claims it had been spying . Kaspersky, and an American security firm, Symantec, believe the so-called Duqu 2.0 software was employed to gather information. The virus infects computers across a network and is difficult to detect. Kaspersky said on Wednesday that its own systems had recently been compromised by hackers but the intrusion had been detected at an early stage. Security experts had previously speculated that Duqu may have been created by Israel or the US . "The international reports of Israeli involvement in the matter are baseless," said Tzipi Hotovely, Israel's deputy foreign minister. "What is much more important is that we prevent a bad agreement where at the end of the day we find ourselves with an Iranian nuclear umbrella." Karl-Heinz Grundboeck, a spokesman for Austria's interior ministry, told AFP investigations in Vienna were focused on the Palais Coburg hotel, where talks took place in July last year. Switzerland's attorney general has also opened an investigation, although it is not known which Swiss hotels are affected. Police have seized computers in Switzerland. As well as Vienna, negotiations have been held in the Swiss cities of Geneva, Lausanne and Montreux, and in Germany.NHS cyber attack: A&Es 'fully open' again 16 May 2017 Patients are no longer being diverted away from accident and emergency units following the cyber attack, NHS England says. When the computer virus struck on Friday 47 trusts were affected and seven had to close their doors in A&E to ambulances. Some routine surgery and GP appointments were also cancelled across the NHS in the aftermath. Services are returning to normal, but some places are still having problems. The ransomware program demanded a payment worth £230 to unlock the affected computers. Hackers wanted their payment in the virtual currency Bitcoin, which is harder to trace. At the time Prime Minister Theresa May said it was not an attack targeted at the NHS. She said it was an international attack with a number of countries and organisations affected. National incident director Dr Anne Rainsberry said: "Patients are no longer being diverted away from hospital accident and emergency units and, while there is still some disruption in a small number of areas, most patients are being treated as normal. "We are grateful for the hard work of staff at trusts and GP practices who are still suffering IT issues but have found ways to work around this, as well as the patience of people who have been affected."Durham Sixth Form Centre paid ransom after cyber-attack 9 May 2018 Durham Sixth Form Centre was targeted in April 2017 A school paid out £1,500 in ransom money after it fell victim to a cyber-attack, the BBC has learned. Durham Sixth Form Centre was hit in the run-up to exams in April 2017 when a computer virus encrypted college files which contained students' work. The County Durham school confirmed it had made the payment and that it had informed police about the hack. Durham Police has not commented on the case, but a spokesman said it would not recommend a ransom be paid. Phil Butler, a former police officer and cyber-crime expert at Roxburgh Forensics, said it was "madness" the payout was made by the school, which had responded to a Freedom of Information request from BBC Newcastle. He said: "You're exposing yourself to a whole world of pain, becoming an easy target for future attacks, and not only that you're encouraging the criminality, actually potentially facilitating money laundering." Student Tommy Davis said his grade in his IT A-level suffered because his coursework was never recovered. "They tried to decrypt it but they were never able to, so basically all the IT coursework I left over there to get marked was gone," he said. "So I didn't get the marks I'd actually done work for." Lewis Russ, 19, said rumours started going round that the school computers had been hacked Lewis Russ, 19, was about to take his A-levels when the attack happened. Mr Russ said: "Rumours started going round to say we've been hacked and they've taken all of our files, which was quite alarming considering the fact that I took lots of subjects which had literally all my work on the computers." You may also be interested in: His work was recovered and he is now studying at Northumbria University. The school has not confirmed the source of the attack, but it happened at the same time as the global WannaCry cyber-attack on businesses and banks across the world, as well as the NHS. In relation to that, Mr Butler said: "We weren't dealing with computer nerds sat in a dark bedroom somewhere. "The USA Department of Homeland Security believe North Korea was behind this attack, so it was a state-sponsored terrorist attack upon the western world essentially so it wasn't just the school that was affected. It was a really serious attack." Durham County Council has refused to comment on the school's case as it manages its own IT system.A phone call for Mr Sellan Rory Cellan-Jones @BBCRoryCJ 11 November 2011 Comments The BBC's Rory Cellan-Jones confronts a cold-calling computer virus scammer The phone rang at home the other day, and when I picked it up a voice down a crackly line asked if a "Mr Sellan" was there. He then proceeded to tell me that a problem had been detected with my Windows computer. Having had similar calls before, I thought I knew what was coming. So instead of putting the phone down, I decided to play along and record the call. The man at the other end told me to go to my computer and type in a complex series of instructions. Then he asked me if I was seeing a certain string of letters and numbers. "Ooh yes," I said. That was proof, he told me, that my computer was sending out the error message that his company had received - and which had led him to call in the first place. So I then sought to find out what he was suggesting I do about my badly infected computer. "We will first have to check out the problems and what it will take to fix them," he told me. That might cost nothing or just a minimum charge but if I wanted complete protection over a longer period that would be £159. At that point, I decided to reveal that I had been stringing him along. I do not have a Windows computer at home, so I had not been typing in the instructions - though when a colleague tried it later on a PC at work following the same commands, he came up with same string of numbers and letters. The man at the other end was first bemused, then rather cross. He accused me of wasting his time and energy, then when I asked for a telephone number to contact his firm's PR department, he terminated the call. Now this is a well-known scam, which can involve selling you software you don't need or even having your computer taken over for malicious purposes. There are plenty of warnings from Microsoft and from security experts that any call you get from someone claiming they know what is happening to your PC should be terminated rapidly. But some people are getting repeated calls, and there must be quite a few who are worried enough to fall for the scam. My caller - who appeared by the way to be completely convinced that he was offering a legitimate product - told me that his firm had lots of satisfied customers. The other question which I wanted answered was how the firm had got hold of my number - which I've listed with the Telephone Preference Service in order to avoid getting these calls. The caller said it was on "an international database". If that is so, then someone is involved in a potentially illegal trade in personal data. But as this company - like most of them - was based overseas they may not care too much about that. So it looks as though we can all expect to carry on getting these calls - and will have to choose to ignore them, or perhaps string them along for a while to waste their time.'I kept my multimillion dollar business secret' By Joe Tidy 22 July 2019 Marcin first started writing antivirus software when he was 14 The BBC's weekly The Boss series profiles different business leaders from around the world. This week we speak to Marcin Kleczynski, chief executive and co-founder of US antivirus software company Malwarebytes. A lot of entrepreneurs have "a moment". A moment that makes them realise they're on to something. For Marcin Kleczynski it came while he was discreetly working on his antivirus software business from his student digs. His start-up company Malwarebytes was less than a year old back in late 2008, but already gaining a good reputation in the cyber security world. Marcin, then only 18, was just about managing to juggle running his start-up with participating in student life at the University of Illinois when he hit a snag. "I was having some real trouble analysing the latest computer virus, when all of a sudden I get a white page on my screen that says 'you've been banned from the school network due to malicious activity on your desktop'," he says. Marcin (left), pictured here during a game of broomball while he was a student, did have some fun at university "They'd obviously detected that I had a virus on my computer, but didn't realise it was deliberate. So I call the university IT helpline, and they send a kid, no older than me. He sits down at my computer and looks at it and says 'boy you've really screwed this thing up'. "Then, right in front of me, he logs onto my website and downloads Malwarebytes. "I didn't say anything, I stood behind him and watched him fix my computer with my software to get me back online. He left never knowing who I was, but to this day I love that moment." By the time Marcin graduated with a degree in computer science in 2012, he had quietly grown Malwarebytes into a business earning a few million dollars a year. All without any of his lecturers having any idea what was taking up his time, and pushing his grades down. Today the company has an annual turnover of more than $126m, and millions of customers around the world. Born in Poland in 1989, Marcin moved to the US with his family when he was three, settling in Chicago. As a gaming-obsessed teenager, he'd accidentally got a virus when he was 14, and learned everything he needed to know about computer bugs from internet forums and a "For Dummies" book. The company now has more than 750 employees Formally launching Malwarebytes in January 2008 when he was just 18, it grew quickly, and he decided that starting university in September of that year would just slow him down. His mother had other thoughts. "The business was becoming real, and so I went sheepishly to my mum and said 'I don't think I'm going to go to school'," says Marcin. "Fifteen seconds later we were packing my stuff and I was going to school." What made Mrs Kleczynski initially more alarmed was that her teenage son had launched the business with a man in his 30s called Bruce Harrison. Marcin and Bruce had been writing software together for more than a year, after they first started talking on anti-virus forums. "Here's this 17-year-old kid... he's this 35-year-old man. Imagine telling your mum?..." says Marcin. More The Boss features: Marcin and Bruce hadn't actually met in person at the time. Bruce was a computer repairman in Massachusetts, and Marcin was at home in Chicago. They didn't in fact see each other in the flesh until Malwarebytes was more than 12 months old. "We didn't meet until we made our first million about a year after we launched the product," says Marcin. "Even that was kind of anti-climatic. It was just, 'Hey, Bruce!' - We had a handshake and moved on." Today Bruce, who is head of research, still lives and works on the US east coast, while Marcin is based in the head office in Silicon Valley. The company now has more than 750 employees, and overseas offices in the Republic of Ireland, Singapore and Estonia. Since 2014 it has secured $80m of investment funding. Marcin is a qualified pilot who likes to fly in his spare time Malwarebytes says its software now performs 187 million virus scans every month for individuals and businesses, and is installed more than 247,000 times every day. Like many antivirus companies it operates a "freemium" business model - the basic version is free, but you can then pay for more advanced protection. While the company has consistently grown strongly, Marcin has learned some hard lessons along the way. The most difficult time was navigating the business through an almost catastrophic period in 2014 where the product glitched on a huge scale. "We had a false positive which means we detected a piece of malicious software that wasn't actually malicious at all," he says. "Our software ended up mistakenly bringing down hundreds of thousands of computers. We had 911 emergency centres go down, hospitals go down, it was bad. This has happened to every anti-virus company, by the way, but these mistakes can be company killing because you lose trust. "But we fixed it and got through it. Even today, the system that we created to prevent this from happening again is called 'The Malwarebytes Extinction Prevention System' - our engineers have a great sense of humour." He met his future wife while at university Carl Gottlieb, a cyber security podcaster, says that despite operating in the "notoriously hostile" antivirus industry "Malwarebytes is thriving". "With so many competing vendors, brand awareness is key, and that step [which Malwarebytes took] to offer a free product years ago is paying dividends, with so many customers knowing the name and already using it in their homes. What Marcin and his team have achieved is impressive to see." Still only 29, Marcin says his young age has been an advantage. He encourages other budding teen entrepreneurs to start their own business. "You've heard my story, I started the company when I was living with my parents," he says. "And then even at college, it was all paid for on a student loan, so I was getting fed. If you're in college now, instead of going out and getting drunk with your friends, maybe take one night a week just to see if there's anything you want to work on personally." He admits that his university years were harder than his friends', that he barely passed his degree, and his social life no doubt suffered. However, he's glad his mum forced him to go. "For one thing, I met my wife there," he says.'Contagious' wi-fi virus created by Liverpool researchers By Dave Lee 26 February 2014 Networks most at threat are small businesses and home users, researchers said A computer virus that can spread via wi-fi like a "common cold" has been created by researchers in Liverpool. In densely populated areas with lots of wi-fi networks, the virus can go from network to network finding weaknesses. Once in control of a wi-fi access point, it leaves computers on the network extremely vulnerable. The team's lead researcher told the BBC it was working on software to prevent such attacks being possible. "Rather than rely on people to use strong passwords, you want to integrate intrusion detection systems to the access points," said Alan Marshall, professor of communication networks at the University of Liverpool. He would not go into detail about the methods in order to prevent the attack being used on real victims but said a proof-of-concept attack had been developed at the university. 'Under control' The virus, dubbed Chameleon, seeks out wi-fi access points - devices that transmit the wi-fi signal, found in many homes - that have not had their admin password changed. Many people do not change their wi-fi admin password This password is different from the one used to log on to the wi-fi network itself, and is often left unchanged from the default setting. Once an access point is under a hacker's control, new firmware can be installed. "So it's now under our control," explained Prof Marshall. "Once you do that you can then do other things with it. You can recover passwords, steal data - anything you want." Spreading out But it is the next step of the virus that is most unusual. Once installed on one access point, the virus can - without being controlled by a human - automatically seek out other vulnerable access points, taking them over as and when they are found. Prof Marshall told the BBC that this was unlikely to be a threat to big business wi-fi networks, which should have enhanced security in place. However, networks in homes, or at small premises like coffee shops, are typically found with less stringent protection measures in place. Now that his team has demonstrated the threat, Prof Marshall said attention would turn to creating a product that could be installed in wi-fi access points to prevent this kind of hijacking - without requiring the user to take responsibility. Follow Dave Lee on Twitter @DaveLeeBBCScotland's papers: Brexit 'demands' and cyber-attack fears 15 May 2017 The Herald leads with Nicola Sturgeon "demanding" a place at the Brexit negotiation table if the SNP win a majority of Scottish seats at the general election. The first minister also features on the front page of The Scotsman, which says she has admitted Scotland's education system "must do better". The paper leads with public bodies across Scotland being placed "on alert" amid fears of a fresh wave of cyber-attacks. The Daily Record says a premature baby was saved when two paramedics raced her mum to hospital "defying a warning that it was full". The Scottish Sun features a Hearts fan who claims he was forced to quit his job after "pranking" Hibs boss Neil Lennon as they posed for a picture. The National says Nicola Sturgeon has accused Prime Minister Theresa May of being scared to take part in a televised debate ahead of the general election. The Scottish Daily Express leads with the prime minister promising a "revolutionary vote-winning package of workers' rights". The Scottish Daily Mail says the UK is on "high alert" amid fears the computer virus that hit the NHS could strike again. The i says Nicola Sturgeon has admitted that the literacy and numeracy skills of Scotland's children must improve. The Daily Star says a proposed move to take footballer Wayne Rooney from Manchester United to China could be in jeopardy amid claims that he lost £500,000 at a casino. The Aberdeenshire edition of the Press and Journal leads with news of a £35m boost "which could save 70 North Sea oil jobs". The front page of T the Courier's Dundee edition is given over to a picture which it says demonstrates the devastating effects of drugs in the city.UK and US blame Russia for 'malicious' NotPetya cyber-attack 15 February 2018 The Russian military was directly behind a "malicious" cyber-attack on Ukraine that spread globally last year, the US and Britain have said. The White House said June's NotPetya ransomware attack caused billions of dollars in damage across Europe, Asia, and the Americas. UK Defence Secretary Gavin Williamson said Russia was "ripping up the rule book" and the UK would respond. Moscow denies being behind the attack, calling such claims "Russophobic". Ransomware, which threatens to delete the target's files unless they pay a ransom, is regarded as the fastest growing form of computer virus. Experts believe about 2,000 NotPetya attacks were launched, mainly aimed at Ukraine. The country Ukraine has been locked in a simmering conflict with Russian-backed separatists since Moscow annexed Crimea in 2014. In the NotPetya attack, businesses with strong trade links with Ukraine, such as the UK's Reckitt Benckiser, Dutch delivery firm TNT and Danish shipping giant Maersk were affected. The attack is estimated to have cost companies more than $1.2bn (£850m). Technology explained: what is ransomware? Reckitt Benckiser - maker of Dettol, Durex and Strepsils - said the attack disrupted its manufacturing output and shipping capacity for up to two months. On Thursday the UK government took the unusual step of publicly accusing the Russia military of being behind the attack. "The UK and its allies will not tolerate malicious cyber activity," the foreign office said in a statement. Later, the White House also pointed the finger at Russia. "In June 2017, the Russian military launched the most destructive and costly cyber attack in history," a statement said. "This was also a reckless and indiscriminate cyber attack that will be met with international consequences." Russia, however, said the claims were "groundless" and that Russian businesses were among those whose systems were affected. "It's not more than a continuation of the Russophobic campaign," Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said. You might also be interested in: Foreign Office minister Lord Ahmad of Wimbledon said: "The UK government judges that the Russian government, specifically the Russian military, was responsible for the destructive NotPetya cyber attack." "Its reckless release disrupted organisations across Europe costing hundreds of millions of pounds. "We call upon Russia to be the responsible member of the international community it claims to be rather then secretly trying to undermine it." Mr Williamson warned that the West had "entered a new era of warfare, witnessing a destructive and deadly mix of conventional military might and malicious cyber attacks". Prime Minister Theresa May accused Russian President Vladimir Putin in November of attempting to "sow discord" in the West by meddling in elections, spreading misinformation and engaging in cyber warfare.Latvia resists US call to extradite 'virus maker' 2 August 2013 US Attorney Preet Bharara accused the trio of being "modern day bank robbers" Latvia is resisting calls to extradite a man the US alleges wrote a computer virus used to steal millions. In January, Latvian Deniss Calovskis was named by the US as one of the creators of the Gozi virus. Latvian courts have twice rejected Mr Calovskis' appeal to prevent himself being extradited, but the country's foreign minister opposes the move. He said the potential jail term Mr Calovskis faced was too severe for the crimes he is alleged to have committed. The US began its campaign to extradite two of the three men alleged to have used Gozi soon after publicly accusing the trio of infecting more than one million computers with the virus and stealing data that was then used to plunder bank accounts. They ran a "modern-day bank robbery ring, that required neither a gun or a mask", said US attorney Preet Bharara in January. Romanian Mihai Ionut Paunescu and Russian national Nikita Kuzmin were named as the co-creators of Gozi. Mr Kuzmin is already in jail in the US following his arrest in May 2011 on separate hacking and fraud charges. Extradition proceedings against Mr Paunescu are currently on hold pending an appeal. In a message posted to the website of Latvia's Foreign Ministry, minister Edgars Rinkevics said Latvian law guaranteed that people who broke the law suffered only "proportionate punishment". Mr Rinkevics said the US sought a jail term for Mr Calovskis that exceeded 60 years. While he could not take a view on whether Mr Calovskis broke the law or not, the jail term amounted to an effective life sentence, he wrote. "In my view, such a penalty is disproportionate to the amount, and so far no-one has been able to conclusively dispel my fears that it might be otherwise," he said. In addition, he said, there were questions over whether any of the crimes Mr Calovskis is alleged to have committed actually took place on US soil. The trans-national nature of much cyber crime would make it hard to prove his involvement, wrote Mr Rinkevics. Finally, said the minister, if Mr Calovskis was found guilty there was no reason why he could not serve a sentence for his crimes in his native Latvia. Security analyst Graham Cluley said Gozi was a very successful trojan that pilfered huge sums from bank accounts. "If you caught a criminal who stole sums like that in traditional bank robberies, you would expect them to have the book thrown at them and wouldn't be surprised if they ended up with a serious criminal sentence," he said. "It's important to see more co-operation internationally to bring internet criminals to justice, and a consistency in the treatment and sentencing of convicted hackers," he added. "It's necessary when investigations cross national boundaries that proper legal processes are followed, which can mean it takes a lot of time and effort to get a result," said Mr Cluley.Scottish papers: Mosque leaders linked to banned group and party girl's death 31 March 2016 Leading figures in two of Scotland's biggest mosques have been linked to an organisation responsible for terrorist atrocities in Pakistan , according to The Herald. The Scottish Sun leads with the death of teenager Dione Melville at a party , with claims that she died after taking a mystery pill. The same story features on the front page of the Daily Record, as well as a financial expert claiming Rangers players could be forced to pay back millions of pounds after George Osborne targeted EBTs in the Budget. The Scottish Daily Mail says SNP leader Nicola Sturgeon is under pressure from political rivals to ditch the party's "flawed" Named Person plan. A computer virus has forced the closure of the National Records of Scotland genealogy service - blocking access to details of births, deaths and marriages - according to The Scotsman. The National says the Solidarity party is "in turmoil" over accusations that party leader Tommy Sheridan ignored claims of sexual harassment of female party workers. The Times features an investigation which it claims reveals Scottish football chiefs have secretly opposed new laws to give fans more say in how clubs are run. The Press and Journal's Highlands and Islands edition leads with a woman being killed in a two-car crash on the A9 at Dalwhinnie.NHS told to ditch 'absurd' fax machines 9 December 2018 The NHS will be banned from buying fax machines from next month - and has been told by the government to phase out the machines entirely by 31 March 2020. In July, the Royal College of Surgeons revealed nearly 9,000 fax machines were in use across the NHS in England. The Department of Health said a change to more modern communication methods was needed to improve patient safety and cyber security. An RCS spokesman said they supported the government's decision. In place of fax machines, the Department of Health said secure email should be used. Richard Kerr, who is the chair of the RCS's commission on the future of surgery, said the continued use of the outdated technology by the NHS was "absurd". He added it was "crucial" that the health service invested in "better ways of communicating the vast amount of patient information that is going to be generated" in the future. The group's report from earlier this year found the use of fax machines was most common at the Newcastle upon Tyne NHS Trust, which still relied on 603 machines. Three-quarters of the trusts in England replied to the survey - 95 in total. Ten trusts said that they did not own any fax machines, but four in ten reported more than 100 in use. 'Stuck in the dark ages' Rebecca McIntyre from Manchester, who works as a cognitive behavioural therapist, said fax machines are "a continued risk to the confidentiality and safeguarding of patients". "You would not believe the palaver we have in the work place trying to communicate important documents to services (referrals etc)," she said. "We constantly receive faxes meant for other places in error but this is never reported." Meanwhile, Taz, from Doncaster, works in a pharmacy and said discharge notes, emergency documents and out-of-hours services "all are stuck in the dark ages". "I hope this is just the start of many changes," he said. "The amount of time wasted and potential errors that exist from not using technology is shocking and often it's the patients that suffer. "My next hope is that hand written prescriptions are scrapped completely and we use tablets to send them electronically for patients like most GPs have been doing for years." However, Tim Owen. from Bolton, who works in blood services, asked: "So what happens when a computer virus attacks a hospital's IT infrastructure, as happened recently? "During the WannaCry attack of 2017 our 'out-dated, redundant' piece of equipment ensured that blood products, not routinely held in our on-site blood bank, could be ordered without delay and therefore not compromising patient safety." One GP in the Midlands said they currently rely on a fax machine for requesting x-rays at local hospitals because of an ongoing IT problem which has not been fixed. 'I fax my brother for fun' Meanwhile, outside of the NHS, Nina Mowbray, from Northampton, works for one of the top 10 accountancy firms where she said they still fax documents to HM Revenue and Customs. "We could email but we need to have this set up first which means we have to get formal approval from a director/partner which we don't do," she said. "It does seem very outdated." And Joseph Vincent, from Macclesfield, said he still uses his fax machine to communicate with his brother, who lives in a remote part of Scotland. "The internet is slow there and sometimes we send funny messages to each other using a fax machine. The sound it makes is really satisfying although it is a bit of a running gag between us." Fax factsLois Lane actress Margot Kidder dies aged 69 14 May 2018 A Montana funeral home says the actress died at her home on Sunday Actress Margot Kidder, best known for her role as Lois Lane in Superman, has died aged 69. A funeral home in Livingston, Montana, where the actress lived, said Kidder died at her home on Sunday. She rose to fame starring alongside Christopher Reeve in the Superman films of the 1970s and 1980s. The Canadian-born actress acquired American citizenship in 2005, and became a political and women's rights activist alongside her acting. The cause of her death is not yet known. Kidder starred alongside Reeve in the 1978 film Superman and its sequels, as well as horror classics Black Christmas and The Amityville Horror. The actress was also an outspoken critic of the Gulf War, of fracking by energy companies, and was at times a vocal supporter of Democratic party candidates. After settling in the US state of Montana, she became a supporter of Montana Women For, a non-profit organisation which describes its goals as the "participation and empowerment of women in our democracy through education and advocacy on critical issues". As an activist, she was arrested in 2011 while taking part in a protest at the White House against the Keystone XL pipeline , which remains controversial today. Kidder also suffered from mental health problems, which resulted in her high-profile disappearance for several days in 1996. Kidder, seen here in 2009, continued to work alongside her activism In an interview with People magazine later that year , she referred to her disappearance as "the most public freak-out in history". While working on her memoirs, a computer virus destroyed all of her work, she told the magazine - something she concluded was deliberate, and involved her former husband and the CIA. She was eventually found safe, and would talk openly about her experience of manic episodes and of depression in the years ahead, raising awareness about bipolar disorder while advocating the use of alternative medicine as a treatment. On social media, film and superhero fans paid tribute to the actress. DC Comics, publisher of the Superman comic books, said Kidder was "the Lois Lane so many of us grew up with". Eric Goldman, editor at rival comic book maker Marvel, said Kidder "made sure my generation knew just how awesome Lois Lane was" - a sentiment echoed by famed comic book writer Mark Millar, who said she was "my Lois Lane". Teri Hatcher, who played Lois Lane in the 1990s TV show Lois & Clark: The New Adventures of Superman, wrote that it had been "a privilege" to step into Kidder's role - while her co-star Dean Cain also tweeted his condolences . It is a privilege to have shared the same role of Lois Lane with this wonderful actress. She led the way brilliantly. My heart goes out to her family and friends. #MargotKidder  #Superman  pic.twitter.com/chm0H07POs — Teri Hatcher (@HatchingChange) May 14, 2018 View original tweet on Twitter English actress Sarah Douglas - who played supervillain Ursa, famously sucker-punched by the plucky Lane - tweeted that Kidder had been "a joy to be around". So saddened by the news that dear #MargotKidder has died peacefully in her sleep yesterday. We continued to have fun together over the last 40 years and  she was a joy to be around. pic.twitter.com/16ARRj6Hy6 — Sarah Douglas (@TheSarahDouglas) May 14, 2018 View original tweet on Twitter Some fans recalled the landmark cinematic moments from the original 1978 Superman film, while others applauded the actress' open discussion of mental health issues at a time when it was unpopular to make such things public. Margot Kidder should be remembered as much for courageously, candidly discussing her battles with mental illness as for any screen role. There are no Supermen— or women.  It is not a character deficiency to acknowledge  such struggles and get the help and treatment you need! RIP pic.twitter.com/ZD6RB3cfzU — David Axelrod (@davidaxelrod) May 14, 2018 View original tweet on Twitter Actor Cameron Cuffe, currently starring in Superman spin-off TV series Krypton, wrote: "On screen there are few who have brought a legend to life in the same way Margot Kidder did. As a person there are few who have been as honest and brave when it came to being open about mental health." "A pioneer and inspiration always." Kidder married and divorced three times. She is survived by her only child, Maggie, and two grandchildren.Cyber-attack 'hero': Malware Tech expert and the kill-switch A technology expert found a hidden kill-switch among the computer code in the virus that hit organisations around the world on Friday. The expert - from the Malware Tech blog - told the BBC's Newshour programme how he stumbed on the fix. 13 May 2017 BBC News Middle EastUS and Israel tied to Flame attack by Washington Post 20 June 2012 Experts say Flame is one of the most sophisticated threats ever seen Accusations the US and Israel jointly created the computer virus Flame have been printed by the Washington Post newspaper. It quoted unnamed "Western officials with knowledge of the effort" as its sources . The powerful malware was discovered after the UN noticed data disappearing from PCs in the Middle East. The Post said the US National Security Agency, the CIA and Israel's military had collaborated on the project. It had "intended to slow Iran's nuclear program, reduce the pressure for a conventional military attack and extend the timetable for diplomacy and sanctions", the newspaper said. Reuters subsequently reported that current and former Western national security officials had told the news agency the US had been involved in making the virus. The BBC has been unable to confirm or disprove the allegations. Flame is thought to have been first noticed when Iran's servers were taken offline in April following a malware attack on key oil terminals. Covert action A later report by anti-virus company Kaspersky Labs said there had been 189 attacks in Iran, 98 in Israel and Palestine, and 32 in Sudan. A "former high-ranking US intelligence official", who it said had spoken on the condition of anonymity, told the Washington Post: "[Flame] is about preparing the battlefield for another type of covert action. "Cyber-collection against the Iranian programme is way further down the road than this." Iran has said it is now able to defend itself against the malware and clean up infected PCs . Under siege But the attacks could lead the country to develop its own sophisticated cyber-capabilities, Mark Phillips, a research fellow at defence think tank the Royal United Services Institute (RUSI), told BBC News. "If it did originate from the US and/or Israel, Iran is going to feel under siege as a result of a number of attempts - a previous one was Stuxnet - and will seek to improve its cyber-defences," he said. "The better you are at detecting cyber-actions, the better you are at infiltrating others. "This cyber-onslaught that Iran has been facing from Stuxnet through to Flame is actually helping it to become a really serious cyber-power in its own right, which would not have been an intended effect of whoever developed Flame." Nation-state involvement Security experts call Flame one of the most complex threats ever seen, suggesting a nation state rather than individual hackers are likely to have been behind its development. "The reason [sources] may want to stay anonymous is because of the sensitive nature of technologies and capabilities involved," said Mr Phillips. "We're probably stuck with a situation where we'll only have this speculation for a foreseeable future." The Israeli embassy in London declined to comment.Internet at Portsmouth's libraries suspended over virus 15 January 2011 A computer virus has caused the suspension of public internet access at every library in Portsmouth. The service will be unavailable for about two weeks while IT staff try to fix the network of library computers. Lindy Elliott, Portsmouth library services manager, said the measure was needed to protect the security and personal data of users. Portsmouth City Council apologised for the inconvenience and said the service would restart as soon as possible.UK's fraud hotspots revealed by Which? By Jane Wakefield 16 June 2017 Comments Norfolk has the dubious distinction of being home to the most dating fraud Norfolk is a dating scams hotspot, Surrey succumbs to investment fraud and west and mid-Wales suffers cold calling computer cons, according to data from UK cyber-crime centre Action Fraud. Consumer watchdog Which? has collated the data, which came via a Freedom of Information request And it wants the government to do more to tackle the problem. A recent Office of National Statistics survey suggested there are 5.4 million fraud and computer misuse cases a year. Other findings include: Which said that it could not explain why certain frauds occur more in some areas rather than others, partly because so many fraud cases go unreported so the data is incomplete. A woman who lost more than £300,000 in an online dating scam has spoken about her experience There were 264,204 frauds reported to Action Fraud in 2016 but this is likely to be a fraction of those that occur. Which's report did suggest that certain demographics are targeted by different scams  - so, for example, fake computer fixes tend to focus on elderly women living in rural areas. Members of the public can click on an interactive map to find out the most commonly occurring fraud in their county. Gareth Shaw, Which? money expert, thinks there is little doubt that online fraud is on the rise: "This research highlights how reported fraud in the UK is on the increase and the kinds of scams you are most likely to fall victim to will depend on where you live. "These criminals are constantly finding new ways to rip us off and those tackling fraud should be upping their game. The government needs to set out an ambitious agenda to tackle fraud, while law enforcement agencies need to be working harder to identify and protect the people most at risk from fraud." Commander Dave Clark, City of London Police, National Co-ordinator for Economic Crime said: "Fraud and cyber crime are global problems with many of the offenders targeting UK citizens from overseas," "Law enforcement is not the single solution to this phenomenon. The solution requires every individual, business and organisation to take responsibility to ensure they take steps to protect themselves and others."Iran 'uncovers Stars espionage virus' 25 April 2011 Details of the Stars virus were posted on the website of Iran's civil defence organisation Officials in Iran say they have found a computer virus designed to target the country's government institutions. The malicious software - dubbed Stars - was capable of inflicting minor damage, according to the head of Iran's civil defence organisation. If the reports are accurate, it would be the second major attack in a year. The recently discovered Stuxnet worm is thought to have been created to take control of equipment used in Iran's nuclear programme. It would take some time to establish Stars' intended purpose, said Gholam Reza Jalali, military head of the Iranian Passive Defence Organisation. "The Stars virus has been presented to the laboratory but is still being investigated," he said. "No definite final conclusions have been reached." Mr Jalali revealed that the virus could have been "mistaken for executive files of governmental organisations", but gave no indication about who might be behind the attack. Stuxnet Last week, the same official suggested that Stuxnet was the work of the United States and warned that it could have caused large-scale accidents and loss of life. Stuxnet first came to light in July 2010. Analysis by security firm Symantec showed that, while it could be transmitted via the internet, it was designed to infect specific types of industrial controllers. Stuxnet is believed to have been designed to target Iran's uranium enrichment facility at Natanz The machinery in question was used to control centrifuges at Iran's Natanz uranium enrichment facility. Most experts who have looked at the case agree, given the scale and complexity of Stuxnet, that a foreign state was probably behind its development. Iranian officials have previously pointed the finger at the US and Israel, although no firm evidence has been produced.Cyber theft hits one in five consumers, survey finds 23 November 2015 More than a fifth of consumers have had personal details stolen and their accounts used to make purchases, according to a survey by Deloitte. Just under half of respondents said they often felt they were being targeted by cyber-criminals. Just under 40% had had personal data stolen or deleted because of a computer virus or malware, up from 26% in 2013. Consumer trust in companies storing personal data has slipped to 23% of respondents, down from 29%. More than half (53%) did not know the detail of the personal data that had been collected by organisations, up from 37% in 2013. The Deloitte survey also found companies that failed to safeguard data were more likely to lose custom than those which raised prices. Simon Borwick, director in the cyber risk services team at Deloitte, said: "The volume and value of data available online means that consumers are now more exposed than ever before. "Many organisations are struggling to prepare themselves to deal with the wide range of different cyber attacks. Cyber security has moved beyond simply being an IT issue; it is now a business-wide risk which requires immediate attention at the highest level." The Institute of Directors warned last month that attacks on British businesses "happen constantly", but only serious breaches such as the attack that affected telecoms company Talk Talk made the headlines. The attack on Talk Talk has hit both the company's reputation and its share price, which has fallen by almost 25% this year.Guilty plea for Latvian malware maker 7 September 2015 The gang behind Gozi made millions by stealing from online bank accounts A Latvian man has pleaded guilty to creating malware that stole millions of dollars from online bank accounts. Deniss Calovskis admitted in a New York court hearing that he had been hired to write part of the Gozi computer virus. The code Calovskis wrote changed banking websites and helped make the virus more effective. Gozi was first found in 2007 but remained active for years and is thought to have infected more than one million computers worldwide. Diplomatic row "I knew what I was doing was against the law," Calovskis said in court, answering charges of conspiring to commit computer intrusion. Calovskis was extradited to the US from Latvia in February after lengthy negotiations between the two nations over the potential sentence he would serve. Latvian government officials initially resisted calls to hand over Calovskis, saying US plans to sentence him to more than 60 years in jail did not represent "proportionate punishment". A plea agreement on sentencing reached with lawyers representing Calovskis means he will not appeal against any jail sentence of two years or less. It is not clear whether the 10 months Calovskis spent in jail in Latvia during the extradition row will count as part of the sentence he eventually receives. He is scheduled to be sentenced on 14 December. Two other men have been arrested in connection with the creation and administration of Gozi. Russian national Nikita Kuzmin is in jail in the US following his arrest in May 2011 on separate hacking and fraud charges. Extradition proceedings against Romanian Mihai Ionut Paunescu are currently on hold pending an appeal.Computer malware created for sophisticated cyberwarfare A new type of computer malware, described as "the most sophisticated cyberweapon yet unleashed", has been uncovered in computers in the Middle East. Antivirus researchers and software manufacturers in Russia, Hungary and Ireland uncovered Worm.Win32.Flame. They also believe it may have infected machines in Europe. Dr. Boldizsár Bencsáth, from the Laboratory of Cryptography and Systems at Budapest University, says the computer virus was most likely to be a state-sponsored cyberweapon, used as a tool for international espionage. 29 May 2012Botnet hacker caught in Slovenia 28 July 2010 The FBI described the capture of Iserdo as a "huge break" in the ongoing Mariposa investigation. A computer hacker known as Iserdo has been arrested in Slovenia. The 23-year-old is believed to have written the program behind the mariposa virus, also known as butterfly. The botnet, one of the world's largest, was dismantled earlier this year after infecting 12.7 million computers. It was designed to steal personal financial details and was also found in the PCs of banks and major companies. Officials from around the world have been chasing the cyber criminals. In December 2009, three people believed to have been running it were arrested in Spain. "To use an analogy here, as opposed to arresting the guy who broke into your home, we've arrested the guy that gave him the crowbar, the map and the best houses in the neighbourhood," Jeffrey Troy, deputy assistant director for the FBI cyber division told Associated Press. Botnet background Botnets are networks of computers with malicious software installed. This puts them under the control of cyber criminals without the knowledge of individual owners. They can send spam e-mail from the host's machine or search for information such as credit card details and send them back to their creator. They also send replica programmes to other computers, sometimes via the e-mail of the host. Security expert Rik Ferguson told the BBC that the mariposa botnet had got out of control. "They guys behind it said it was more successful than they had intended to be," he said. "As is the case with most botnets, the more widespread they are the more likely they are to be discovered. They were a victim of their own success." Mr Ferguson, senior security adviser at Trend Micro, added that while it was not unusual for a botnet to infect hundreds of thousands of computers, one infecting several million was rare. Nobody has yet been arrested in connection with the Conficker worm, a similar virus which is currently running on 6 million Windows PCs and is believed to peaked at up to 12 million, he said. While the core group behind a particular botnet is generally quite small, there is a whole industry of people offering "cyber crime services" such as tool kit building and program writing, he added. "The thing with the underground economy is that it's full of niche vendors and players, it mirrors legitimate business. There's a lot of competition - it's not unusual to see malware designed to remove other malware, just so that it can take over."Three US hospitals hit by ransomware 23 March 2016 It is believed the hospital was hit by the Locky strain of malware The IT systems of three US hospitals have been infected with ransomware, which encrypts vital files and demands money to unlock them. The systems, at Kentucky Methodist Hospital, Chino Valley Medical Center and Desert Valley Hospital, California, are now running normally again. None of the hospitals is believed to have paid the ransom. And the cases are now being investigated by the FBI. Internal emergency Technology explained: what is ransomware? The Kentucky Methodist Hospital had to shut down all of its desktop computers and activate a back-up system. A message on its homepage said: "Methodist Hospital is currently working in an internal state of emergency due to a computer virus that has limited our use of electronic web-based services. "We are currently working to resolve this issue, until then we will have limited access to web-based services and electronic communications." It later said no patient data or care had been affected. Fred Ortega, a spokesman for Prime Healthcare Services, which owns Chino Valley Medical Center and Desert Valley Hospital, said: "It did cause significant disruptions of our IT systems. "However, most of the systems and the critical infrastructure has been brought back online." The attack comes weeks after it was revealed Hollywood Presbyterian Medical Centre in Los Angeles had been attacked by ransomware. In that case, it paid $17,000 to get access to files back. Ransomware growth Kentucky Methodist Hospital information systems director Jamie Reid named the malware involved as Locky, a new bug that encrypts files, documents and images and renames them with the extension .locky. The most common way Locky gets itself on machines is via a spam email with an attached document that looks like nonsense and advises readers to enable macros "if the data encoding is incorrect". Once the malware is downloaded, it sends a message to desktops with instructions about how users can pay to have files unlocked. In November, a report from Intel's McAfee labs said the number of ransomware attacks was expected to grow in 2016. Security expert Brian Krebs said: "It's a fair bet that as ransomware attacks and attackers mature, these schemes will slowly become more targeted. "I also worry that these more deliberate attackers will take a bit more time to discern how much the data they've encrypted is really worth, and precisely how much the victim might be willing to pay to get it back."Online job advert fraudsters jailed A gang of fraudsters who posted fake job adverts online has been jailed. The adverts for work in firms like Harrods and Argos were posted on sites like Gumtree and Blue Arrow. The gang sent out a computer virus to applicants that copied their bank details. The scam only came to light when applicants complained directly to Harrods. Adjibola Akinlabi, 26, Damilare Oduwole, also 26, and Michael Awosile, 27, who are all living in south London, were each jailed for seven years. Malware writer Tyrone Ellis, 27, was jailed for four and a half years, while Temitope Araoye, 29, was given a two-year prison sentence. Nadine Windley, 26, who pleaded guilty to using her position as an employee of Santander bank to provide the gang with customer account data, was handed a two-year suspended sentence. Babatunde Akinlabi, 28, who previously pleaded guilty to a 2008 offence of fraud with his brother Adjibola after they used illegally obtained bank details to obtain cash from online bank accounts, will be sentenced on 6 December. BBC London's Tarah Welsh spoke to Frank Tutty from the National Crime Agency and a victim. 15 November 2013The other people who President Obama pardoned in his 'final act' 18 January 2017 President Obama has granted changes to the prison sentences of 209 people, in the days before he leaves office. He also pardoned 64 others, in one of his final acts as US president. One of the most controversial releases is that of Chelsea Manning, the transgender US Army private who leaked confidential messages to Wikileaks. Neither a pardon (doing away with a conviction) nor a commutation (changing a sentence) is an acceptance of innocence. They're granted when convicted criminals are believed to have fulfilled their debt to society, or are seen as deserving for some reason. Dwight J Loving - serving a death sentence He was convicted of murdering two taxi drivers while he was a soldier in 1989 and has been on death row ever since. His offences included pre-mediated murder, attempted murder and armed robbery. He was one of six military personnel facing the death penalty in the US. Loving's death sentence has been commuted to life imprisonment with some conditions. Willie McCovey - served probation The baseball Hall of Famer was fined and given two years' probation in 1996 for failing to pay taxes. It was the earnings he made on sports memorabilia and signing autographs. He's been pardoned. Ian Schrager - served a prison sentence The nightclub boss used to own Studio 54 in New York (it was the place to be in 70s). He and co-founder Steve Rubell did time for tax evasion. He's also been pardoned. James Cartwright - was awaiting sentencing The former US marine general pleaded guilty to falsely denying he was the source of leaking classified information. The leak involved a computer virus that disabled equipment Iranians were using to enrich uranium. He's been pardoned. Oscar Lopez - serving a 70-year sentence The 74-year-old was arrested in 1986 after appearing on the FBI's most wanted list. He was part of the Armed Forces of National Liberation of Puerto Rico (FALN), an underground organisation that fought for the independence of Puerto Rico. His crimes included carrying carrying firearms during violent crimes and moving explosives with intent to kill, injure and destroy property. Lopez should now be released in May and plans to return to Puerto Rico. Arboleda A Ortiz - serving a death sentence The 48-year-old was sentenced to death for his role in murder and drug trafficking in 2000. During the trial he maintained that officers who questioned him never told him he had a right to an attorney or a right to remain silent. His attorneys said he never learned to read or write in any language. Anti-death penalty advocates say he is intellectually disabled and his execution would be unconstitutional. He's no longer sentenced to death. How do pardons and commutations work? Mr Obama has commuted 1,385 sentences and issued 212 pardons, more than the total granted by the past 12 presidents combined. The White House tweeted a graph, showing that Obama has commuted more sentences than other US presidents. In America, a pardon not only lifts the conviction and sentence but removes other penalties such as the bar on convicted felons sitting on federal juries, and state-level prohibitions on such things as voting or possession of firearms. A commutation means the sentence is changed but the restrictions outlined above remain. When Donald Trump assumes office, he won't be able to undo the pardons and commutations Obama has put in place. Find us on Instagram at BBCNewsbeat and follow us on Snapchat, search for bbc_newsbeatCoronavirus: Fully reopening schools 'could cause second wave' By James Gallagher 6 June 2020 Sending all children back to school - and freeing parents to go back to work - could trigger a second wave of coronavirus, warn researchers. UCL and the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine team said testing and tracing contacts of those with the virus might help prevent this. But the current test and trace system would need to be more effective. The study is the first to assess the extent of contact tracing that will be needed to prevent a second wave. It used computer models to see how the virus might spread as pupils returned to the classroom and their parents were freed from childcare and able return to work or other activities. The academics investigated the impact of the "phased return" strategy in England. They analysed what happens when Reception, Year 1 and Year Six go back at the start of June; followed by all primary school pupils in July; secondary pupils in Year 10 and 12 having some contact in July and all secondary schools going back in September. The study showed the combined effect on pupils and parents would be enough to cause a second wave without an effective test and trace programme. This would happen around December 2020 and would be twice as big as the first peak, unless the government took other actions such as re-imposing lockdown. How test and trace works: The success of the scheme is dependent on how well the testing and the contact tracing goes. The model suggested a second wave would be prevented if: Modelling is not a crystal ball and there is always uncertainty around any predictions. However, researchers are concerned England is not achieving those figures. About 1,700 people are testing positive every day in hospitals, care homes and the wider community, while figures from the Office for National Statistics suggest there are 5,600 new infections a day in the community alone - and one Public Health England report suggests 17,000 infections per day . There is still no official data on the number of contacts being traced, but a report by the Times (paywall) suggests it is less than 40% . "Our concern from the data at the moment is test-trace-isolate is not reaching the coverage we think is the minimum," Prof Chris Bonell, from the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, told the BBC. "There is clearly a risk of a second pandemic wave… I'm worried. The R [rate of virus spread] is a bit below one [the point at which the number of new cases starts to take off again], but the incidence is high so it's precarious." Can children catch and spread coronavirus? Dr Jasmina Panovska-Griffiths, from UCL, said it would have been better to wait until test and trace was fully up and running before lifting lockdown. "Cases are not coming down as much as we wanted. I would caution against reopening schools when we are doing a lot of other interventions and we don't know the impact of them. "Everything depends on control of transmission, there is the threat of a second pandemic wave." Meanwhile, researchers at the University of Warwick have also published modelling on the impact of reopening schools. It looked only at the impact of children mixing, not the society-wide effect of schools opening. It found that halving the size of classes or focusing on getting younger children into school was less likely to push the R number above 1, the point at which the number of new cases starts to take off again. Secondary schools were deemed more risky, as older children come into contact with more people. "If we reopen all schools it could push R above 1 in some regions," Dr Ed Hill said. But he added: "Decisions surrounding reopening of schools are a difficult trade-off between the epidemiological consequences and the needs of the children in terms of educational development." Follow James on TwitterNational Crime Agency warning over computer viruses Almost 11,000 people had their computer hacked by a virus last year, giving cyber criminals access to personal data. The National Crime Agency is now warning people of the dangers of failing to protect electronic devices. Mike Sergeant reports. 13 August 2014 BBC News UKIran nuclear plans: Bushehr fuel to be unloaded 26 February 2011 The Bushehr nuclear plant has been hit by repeated delays Iran has confirmed it is having to remove nuclear fuel from the reactor at the Bushehr power plant, the latest in a series of delays to hit the project. On Friday, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) said it had new information on "possible military dimensions" to Iran's nuclear plans, which Iran says are purely peaceful. The IAEA will supervise the unloading of fuel from Bushehr, Iran's nuclear envoy Ali Asghar Soltanieh said. Iran began the Bushehr project in 1976. Iran's Fars news agency says the fuel is being removed for "technical reasons". The fuel at Bushehr is being provided by Russia, which built the plant and whose engineers will carry out the unloading, under the supervision of the IAEA. "Upon a demand from Russia, which is responsible for completing the Bushehr nuclear power plant, fuel assemblies from the core of the reactor will be unloaded for a period of time to carry out tests and take technical measurements," Mr Soltanieh said, according to the semi-official Isna news agency. Computer virus? The BBC's Tehran correspondent, James Reynolds, says diplomats suggest the entire core of the Bushehr plant is being replaced - potentially a serious problem. There has been some speculation that the Stuxnet computer virus may be responsible, our correspondent says. Analysts say Stuxnet - which caused problems at another Iranian enrichment facility last year - has been specially configured to damage motors commonly used in uranium-enrichment centrifuges by sending them spinning out of control. Some experts believe that the problems at Bushehr call into question the safety and effectiveness of Iran's nuclear facilities as a whole, our correspondent says. The IAEA report - obtained by the BBC and made available online by the Institute for Science and International Security (Isis) - says Iran is "not implementing a number of its obligations." These include "clarification of the remaining outstanding issues which give rise to concerns about possible military dimensions to its nuclear programme". Six world powers are negotiating with Iran over its nuclear programme, and the country is subject to United Nations Security Council sanctions over its refusal to halt uranium enrichment. Enriched uranium can be used for civilian nuclear purposes, but also to build atomic bombs.Computer viruses and malware 'rampant' in medical tech, experts warn By Dave Lee 17 October 2012 Experts say it can be difficult to upgrade old software on medical devices due to regulatory restrictions High-risk medical technology has been found to be infected by computer viruses and malware, health and security experts have said. They fear that the virus infections could become so severe that a patient may end up getting harmed. Out-dated computer systems which were not able to be changed were to blame for the vulnerabilities, the experts said. One US hospital is said to be deleting viruses from up to two machines a week. The warnings were given as part of a panel discussion in Washington DC, as reported by Technology Review from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology . Mark Olsen, chief information security officer at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston, said the hospital had 664 pieces of medical equipment running on old versions of Windows. This means the equipment is affected by weaknesses which later releases of Windows have since fixed. Kevin Fu, a leading expert in medical technology, explained that the machines were not updated because of fears that doing so would mean they were in breach of regulations put in place by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA approve the use of technology by testing safety rather than security - meaning any potential exposure to cyberthreats is not considered. Raised eyebrows "I find this mind-boggling," Mr Fu told Technology Review. "Conventional malware is rampant in hospitals because of medical devices using unpatched operating systems. There's little recourse for hospitals when a manufacturer refuses to allow [operating system] updates or security patches." There are also fears, the panel agreed, that medical devices could even end up being part of botnets - large networks of hijacked computers that are often used to send out spam email. Medical devices could be struck down by slow performance related to being infected, Mr Fu told the BBC. "Imagine you have a heart monitor that's running Windows and it gets infected by a computer virus and slows down. "This mere slowing down of the computer could cause the device to miss a sensor reading. It certainly raises an eyebrow. Who's watching out for that?" He said that there is no evidence as yet that the malware is reaching medical machines as a result of being targeted by criminals. Instead, he said it was more likely to be "collateral damage" from conventional malware designed to infect normal PCs. "What we're finding is that software has brought tremendous benefit to medicine, but we've kind of forgotten that there's these inconvenient risks of software," he said. In the UK, the NHS faces similar challenges. "The need to implement security and privacy at the design of all systems, whether they're embedded or not is of paramount importance, particularly to the health industry," said Raj Samani, who worked in the health sector and is now chief technology officer for security specialists McAfee. A Channel 4 investigation in 2008 discovered that NHS computers had been affected by more than 8,000 viruses .Next cyber-attack could be imminent, warn experts 14 May 2017 How to protect yourself online Another major cyber-attack could be imminent after Friday's global hit that infected more than 125,000 computer systems, security experts have warned. UK security researcher "MalwareTech", who helped to limit the ransomware attack, predicted "another one coming... quite likely on Monday". The virus, which took control of users' files, spread to 100 countries, including Spain, France and Russia. In England, 48 NHS trusts fell victim, as did 13 NHS bodies in Scotland. Some hospitals were forced to cancel procedures and appointments, as ambulances were directed to neighbouring hospitals free from the computer virus. UK Home Secretary Amber Rudd said on Saturday that the problem was largely resolved but that "there's always more" that could be done to protect against computer viruses. NHS trusts that appear to still be experiencing IT difficulties are: After taking computers over, the virus displayed messages demanding a payment of $300 (£230) in virtual currency Bitcoin to unlock files and return them to the user. BBC analysis of three accounts linked with the global attack suggests the hackers have already been paid the equivalent of £22,080. MalwareTech, who wants to remain anonymous, was hailed as an "accidental hero" after registering a domain name to track the spread of the virus, which actually ended up halting it. The 22-year-old told the BBC: "It's very important that people patch their systems now. "We have stopped this one, but there will be another one coming and it will not be stoppable by us. "There's a lot of money in this. There's no reason for them to stop. It's not really much effort for them to change the code and then start over. "So there's a good chance they are going to do it... maybe not this weekend, but quite likely on Monday morning." On Sunday he warned hackers could upgrade the virus to remove the "kill switch" that helped to stop it. "Version 1 of WannaCrypt was stoppable but version 2.0 will likely remove the flaw. You're only safe if you patch ASAP," he tweeted . Fellow security researcher Darien Huss, from tech firm Proofpoint, echoed MalwareTech's view. "I highly suspect that, with the amount of coverage that this incident is getting, there are probably already people that are working to incorporate the exploit that was used for spreading," he said. He said his research experience on targeted attacks made him doubt a nation state was involved here. "This attack was so simple and unsophisticated, that leads me to believe the people or person involved, even though they are quite capable, they're more along the lines of an amateur," he said. Investigators are working to track down those responsible for the ransomware used on Friday, known as Wanna Decryptor or WannaCry. Ron Grimshaw was having an MRI scan when nurses told him they had to stop because of a cyber-attack The virus exploits a vulnerability in Microsoft Windows software, first identified by the US National Security Agency, experts have said. Europol described the cyber-attack as "unprecedented" and said its cyber-crime team was working with affected countries to "mitigate the threat and assist victims". Oliver Gower, of the UK's National Crime Agency, added: "Cyber criminals may believe they are anonymous, but we will use all the tools at our disposal to bring them to justice." Update not applied In the UK, critics said the government had known about the threat of a cyber-attack for some time, but hospitals had not made the right upgrades to protect themselves. A security update - or patch - was released by Microsoft in March to protect against the virus, but it appears many NHS organisations had not applied it or were using an older version of the operating system no longer supported - namely Windows XP. NHS Digital said that 4.7% of devices within the NHS use Windows XP, with the figure continuing to decrease. Home Secretary Amber Rudd said most of the NHS was now "working normally" But Kingsley Manning, a former chairman of NHS Digital, said several hundred thousand computers were still running the out-of-date operating system. Mr Manning told BBC Radio 4's PM programme: "Some trusts took the advice that was offered to them very seriously and acted on it and some of them may not have done. "If you're sitting in a hard-pressed hospital in the middle of England, it is difficult to see that as a greater priority than dealing with outpatients or A&E." The Liberal Democrats and Labour have both demanded an inquiry into the cyber-attack. Get news from the BBC in your inbox, each weekday morningIranian oil terminal 'offline' after 'malware attack' 23 April 2012 Iran has been forced to disconnect key oil facilities after suffering a malware attack on Sunday, say reports. The computer virus is believed to have hit the internal computer systems at Iran's oil ministry and its national oil company. Equipment on the Kharg island and at other Iranian oil plants has been disconnected from the net as a precaution. Oil production had not been affected by the attack, said the Mehr news agency. However, the attack is believed to have been responsible for knocking offline the websites of the Iranian oil ministry and national oil company. The Ministry website was back in action on Monday but the oil company site has remained unreachable. An Iranian oil ministry spokesperson was quoted as saying that data about users of the sites had been stolen as a result of the attack. Core data about Iran's oil industry remained safe because it was on computer systems that remain separate from the net, they added. The terminal on Kharg Island handles about 90% of Iran's oil exports. Iran is reported to have mobilised a "cyber crisis committee" to handle the aftermath of the attack and bolster defences. This committee was set up following attacks in 2010 by a virus known as Stuxnet that was aimed at the nation's nuclear programme.US extradites SpyEye cybercrime suspect Hamza Bendelladj 7 May 2013 Mr Bendelladj was arrested while travelling through Thailand A 24-year-old Algerian man has been extradited to the US to face charges he used a computer virus to steal cash from more than 250 American banks. Hamza Bendelladj, arrested in Thailand in January, is suspected of being a co-creator of the SpyEye malware. The widely used program steals log-in information for online bank accounts that thieves then plunder. If found guilty, Mr Bendelladj could face $14m (£9m) in fines and a jail sentence of more than 30 years. "Bendelladj's alleged criminal reach extended across international borders, directly into victims' homes," said US attorney Sally Yates in a statement . "In a cyber-netherworld, he allegedly commercialised the wholesale theft of financial and personal information through this virus which he sold to other cybercriminals." Mr Bendelladj, who used the alias Bx1 online, is believed to be one of the "critical" controllers of the SpyEye software that infected users' computers and then stole personal information used to log in to online financial accounts. SpyEye's controllers are believed to have built up a huge network, or botnet, of compromised computers they regularly ransacked for information. The US accuses Mr Bendelladj of using the information gathered by SpyEye to steal cash from banks and of using the botnet for other purposes such as sending spam. In addition, Mr Bendelladj is accused of helping to develop and sell versions of SpyEye that novice cyber-thieves used to find and fleece victims. US law enforcement agencies tracked and caught Mr Bendelladj by getting him to sell a copy of SpyEye to an undercover police officer for $8,500 (£5,500).Northern Constabulary warning over computer scam 19 October 2012 Police are warning of a computer scam involving an on-screen message claiming to have been sent by Northern Constabulary E-Crime Unit. People sent the message are asked to pay £100 to unlock their computers. Northern Constabulary has urged people not to respond to the pop up and not to give out any personal information, including bank details. The force has also recommended that computer anti-virus software should be up-to-date. A spokesman said: "Northern Constabulary would like to advise the public that no Police Force would contact the public by this means and would never request money directly."Online and smartphone safety tips By Del Crookes 18 December 2012 A man who pleaded guilty to hacking into the email accounts of celebrities to gain access to nude photos and private information has been sentenced to 10 years in prison by a judge in Los Angeles. Former office clerk Christopher Chaney, 36, hacked into the accounts of film star Scarlett Johansson and other celebrities. He claimed he did it because he was addicted to spying on their personal lives. Tips for staying safe online Tips for staying safe on your phone vRaids mounted on fake Indian tech support centres 29 November 2018 The bogus support calls typically claim to find problems with Microsoft Windows More than 50 people have been arrested in India for their alleged involvement in fake security warning scams. The New York Times said that Delhi police made the arrests during raids on 26 call centres linked to the scams. Software giant Microsoft helped police trace who was behind the large-scale operations. It said it received more than 11,000 calls per month about fake security warnings and that many people lost significant sums to the fraudsters. "This is an organised crime," Courtney Gregoire, an assistant general counsel in Microsoft's digital crimes unit told the US newspaper. Microsoft has estimated that fraudsters make about $1.5bn (£1.2bn) a year through fake Windows support calls. What happened when sextortion scammers targeted a BBC Trending reporter? Raids on 16 call centres were carried out this week and, earlier in November, another 10 locations were visited by police. The raids were prompted by Microsoft filing complaints with local police in New Delhi about call centres it claimed were involved in the fraudulent operations. Typically, said Microsoft, attempts to trick people revolved around pop-up warnings that falsely claimed that a person's computer was infected with a virus. Fixing the non-existent virus could involve ringing a tech support centre. An operator would talk a victim through a fake fix and then charge them for the work. In another version of the scam, staff at call centres claimed to be calling from Windows official support saying they had spotted that a person's computer has been hacked or harboured a virus. Again, victims were expected to pay to fix the non-existent problem. Some people caught out by the scam paid up to $1,000 for the fake tech support, said the newspaper. Microsoft has published advice about ways to spot the fake calls and avoid becoming a victim.Inside the TalkTalk 'Indian scam call centre' By Geoff White 6 March 2017 TalkTalk has warned its customers to be on the alert for scammers TalkTalk customers are being targeted by an industrial-scale fraud network in India, according to whistleblowers who say they were among hundreds of staff hired to scam customers of the British telecoms giant. The scale of the criminal operation has been detailed by the three sources, who say they were employed by two front-companies set up by a gang of professional fraudsters. The sources describe working in "call centres" in two Indian cities. They say as many as 60 "employees" work in shifts in each office, phoning TalkTalk customers and duping them into giving access to their bank accounts. The whistleblowers say they were given a script in which they were told to claim they were calling from TalkTalk. They say they then convinced victims to install a computer virus. A separate team would use that virus to gain access to victims' online banking, they add. While it has not been possible to independently verify their claims, the sources have given highly detailed accounts of the scammers' tactics, which correlate very closely with previous reports of fraud targeting TalkTalk customers. The software they named also matches that identified by TalkTalk in its own website guidance on what to watch out for in a scam call. In addition, a victim of the fraud shown the call centre script has confirmed it matched the one read out to her when she was conned out of £5,000. One of the whistleblowers shared this screenshot of one of the scripts TalkTalk was hit by a cyber-attack in October 2015, but that hack appears to be unrelated to the Indian fraud. Instead, it is alleged the scam is linked to problems in a company hired by the British broadband provider. In 2011, TalkTalk outsourced some of its call-centre work to the Kolkata (Calcutta) office of Wipro, one of India's largest IT service companies. Last year, three Wipro employees were arrested on suspicion of selling TalkTalk customer data . A source in Kolkata, who did not want to be named, alleges the same data was obtained by a criminal gang, with USB sticks full of data trading hands at parties. The criminals then used the data to operate at least three call centres, according to the whistleblowers, where staff work in shifts earning about £120 per month to perpetrate an intricate but highly successful scam. They say they phone TalkTalk customers, using the stolen data to convince victims they are genuine employees of the company. They then convince the victims their computers are infected, and offer to fix the problems. Through this, the whistleblowers say, the victim is tricked into installing a virus that gives the scammer complete control over their machine. The leaked scripts indicate workers were told how to fool victims into believing them The victims are then offered a compensation payment, for which they must log in to online banking, they add. Thanks to the virus, the fraudsters are able to gain access to the victims' bank accounts when they log in. They say they use various methods to spirit away the money: in some cases pretending to make erroneous overpayments, then convincing victims to repay the extra amount. In other cases, victims have said the scammers were able to set up a new payee without their knowledge and transfer the money out of the account directly. Why the whistleblowers appear credible: Although the BBC cannot be sure of the whistleblowers claims, the following suggested they were telling the truth: Dozens of customers are said to have been affected, and many have lost thousands of pounds as a result of the fraud. Leigh Day solicitors is representing about 20 people who have between them lost almost £100,000. The scripts suggest TalkTalk customers were told that inaction would cause their computers to stop working Questions remain about the speed with which TalkTalk responded to the data breach at Wipro, which is believed to have been in late 2014. It was only in October 2015, after the apparently unrelated cyber-attack, that TalkTalk began a "forensic review" leading to the arrests at Wipro. "We are aware that there are criminals targeting a number of UK and international companies, and we take our responsibility to protect our customers very seriously," said a spokeswoman for TalkTalk. "This is why we launched our Beat The Scammers campaign, helping all our customers to keep themselves from safe from scammers no matter who they claim to be, while our network also proactively blocks over 90 million scam and nuisance calls a month." Wipro did not respond to requests for comment. When contacted, the two companies named by the whistleblowers strongly denied any knowledge of criminal behaviour, and insisted their businesses were legitimate. Geoff White is a freelance investigative journalist , who has also reported for Channel 4 NewsGlobal nuclear facilities 'at risk' of cyber attack 5 October 2015 Iran's nuclear enrichment systems were hit by the Stuxnet virus that targeted centrifuges The risk of a "serious cyber attack" on nuclear power plants around the world is growing, warns a report . The civil nuclear infrastructure in most nations is not well prepared to defend against such attacks, it added. Many of the control systems for the infrastructure were "insecure by design" because of their age, it said. Published by the influential Chatham House think tank, the report studied cyber defences in power plants around the world over an 18-month period. Core breach Cyber criminals, state-sponsored hackers and terrorists were all increasing their online activity, it said, meaning that the risk of a significant net-based attack was "ever present". Such an attack on a nuclear plant, even if small-scale or unlikely, needed to be taken seriously because of the harm that would follow if radiation were released. In addition, it said "even a small-scale cyber security incident at a nuclear facility would be likely to have a disproportionate effect on public opinion and the future of the civil nuclear industry". Unfortunately, research carried out for the study showed that the UK's nuclear plants and associated infrastructure were not well protected or prepared because the industry had converted to digital systems relatively recently. This increasing digitisation and growing reliance on commercial software is only increasing the risks the nuclear industry faces. There was a "pervading myth" that computer systems in power plants were isolated from the internet at large and because of this were immune to the kind of cyber attacks that have dogged other industries. However, it said, this so-called "air gap" between the public internet and nuclear systems was easy to breach with "nothing more than a flash drive". It noted that the destructive Stuxnet computer virus infected Iran's nuclear facilities via this route. The story of Stuxnet What made the world's first cyber-weapon so destructive? The researchers for the report had also found evidence of virtual networks and other links to the public internet on nuclear infrastructure networks. Some of these were forgotten or simply unknown to those in charge of these organisations. Already search engines that sought out critical infrastructure had indexed these links making it easy for attackers to find ways in to networks and control systems. Keith Parker, chief executive of the Nuclear Industry Association, said: "Security, including cyber security, is an absolute priority for power station operators." "All of Britain's power stations are designed with safety in mind and are stress-tested to withstand a vast range of potential incidents," he added. "Power station operators work closely with national agencies such as the Centre for the Protection of National Infrastructure and other intelligence agencies to always be aware of emerging threats." In addition, said Mr Parker, the industry's regulator continuously monitors plant safety to help protect it from any outside threats. In June this year the International Atomic Energy Agency held its first international conference about the cyber threats facing plants and manufacturing facilities. At the conference Yukiya Amano, director of the IAEA, said both random and targeted attacks were being directed at nuclear plants. "Staff responsible for nuclear security should know how to repel cyber-attacks and to limit the damage if systems are actually penetrated," he said in a keynote address to the conference . The civil nuclear industry should do a better job of measuring cyber attack risks and improve the way it defends against them, according to Chatham House. Many plants examined by the report's researchers lacked preparedness for large-scale attacks that took place outside office hours. "The nuclear industry is beginning - but struggling - to come to grips with this new, insidious threat," said Patricia Lewis, research director of Chatham House's international security programme.Cyberbullying: How to keep safe online and deal with it 8 January 2014 The charity Childline says it has seen a rise in the number of children contacting it with concerns about online bullying. It saw 4,507 cases of cyberbullying in 2012-13, up from 2,410 in 2011-12. The charity also saw a rise in concerns about self-harming, while depression and difficult family relationships were the top reasons for seeking help. For the first time in the charity's history, more counselling took place online (59%) than by telephone (41%). Peter Wanless, chief executive of the NSPCC charity which runs Childline, said: "The issues facing children today are very different from those that faced us as children. "Stranger danger, for example, rarely comes up in contacts to Childline but depression, self-harm, online bullying and even suicide contacts are increasing exponentially. "If we are to help young people we need to listen to what they are telling us about the issues they are facing." Tips for staying safe online Some ways of dealing with cyberbullying Childline can be contacted on 0800 1111 or online at ChildLine Follow @BBCNewsbeat on TwitterLight particles deployed in fight against online crime 30 October 2012 Online crime cost the UK retail sector £205m in 2011/2012 Scientists in Scotland have developed a system that uses light particles to safeguard electronic transactions. At present, online shopping, banking and voting are protected using digital signatures based on mathematical formulae, which can be cracked. The new approach uses photons to create "quantum digital signatures" which it is claimed "ensures authenticity". Findings from teams at Strathclyde and Heriot-Watt Universities are published in the journal Nature Communications. The value of online retail sales in the UK last year was estimated to be between £25bn and £50bn. 'Virus attacks' The cost of electronic crime for the UK retail sector in the financial year 2011/2012 was estimated to be £205m. As criminals become more sophisticated in targeting transactions, organisations are being forced to look at new ways to protect themselves and customers from hacking, data theft and fraud. Physicists at Heriot-Watt University in Edinburgh, and Strathclyde University in Glasgow, say they have used particles of light - photons - to create a new way of verifying electronic transactions. Professor Gerald Buller, from Heriot-Watt University, said: "Computer virus attacks have shown that signatures or specific codes can be hijacked, potentially causing chaos with systems being crippled, accounts hacked, and industry and consumers losing millions of pounds. "Our new approach, using quantum mechanics rather than just maths to create signatures for multiple recipients (or customers), could make hacking, fraud and theft near-impossible." The Heriot-Watt and Strathclyde teams say a quantum-based signature means "a malevolent third party" cannot fake a signed message which is being sent to multiple recipients. 'Authentic signature' The system works when a sender writes the signature with encoded light particles and sends it to the receiver. The receiver cannot yet read the signature but can be sure it received an authentic signature. To confirm a message is authentic and to also read it, the receiver then has to receive both the message (the signature) and additional information required to decipher it. Once multiple receivers confirm that they have received identical signatures, only then does the sender provide the additional information required to read the signature. The research teams say this process takes place without customers having to do anything differently to current security methods.NHS 'robust' after cyber-attack 13 May 2017 Home Secretary Amber Rudd said most of the NHS was now "working normally" A total of 48 of England's NHS trusts were hit by Friday's cyber-attack, but only six are not yet back to normal, Home Secretary Amber Rudd has said. Speaking after an emergency Cobra meeting, Ms Rudd said "there's always more" that could be done to protect against computer viruses. She said 97% of NHS trusts were "working as normal" and there was no evidence patient data was affected. The ransomware attack hit organisations in at least 99 countries. Europol described it as "unprecedented" and said its cyber-crime team was working with affected countries to "mitigate the threat and assist victims". Ms Rudd insisted the government had "the right plans" to limit the impact of the attack, which also affected the Nissan car plant in Sunderland . 'Britain left defenceless' The Liberal Democrats and Labour have both demanded an inquiry into the cyber-attack. Lib Dem home affairs spokesman Lord Paddick said "it has left Britain defenceless". Labour's Jonathan Ashworth also called for a "full, independent inquiry" into the cyber-attack. As of 21:00 BST on Saturday, the following NHS England trusts were still reporting IT difficulties on their websites: The 48 NHS trusts affected did not include GP practices. Thirteen NHS bodies were also affected in Scotland. The Scottish government said most NHS computers were expected to be operational by Monday. NHS England said patients needing emergency treatment on Saturday evening should go to A&E or access emergency services as they normally would. However, a small number of non-urgent services may take some time to return to normal. For example, United Lincolnshire Hospitals NHS Trust has already cancelled routine appointments, tests and operations on Monday. The malware spread quickly on Friday leaving hospitals and GPs unable to access patient data, with many doctors resorting to using pen and paper. Their computers were locked by a ransomware program which demanded a payment to access blocked files. Hospitals across the UK were cancelling operations and ambulances had been diverted from hospitals in some areas. Lynne Owens, head of the National Crime Agency, said: "At this moment in time we don't know whether it's a very sophisticated criminal network or whether it's a number of individuals operating together." Patient's story: 'Pulled out' of MRI scan Ron Grimshaw, 80, was halfway through an MRI scan to test for prostate cancer at Lister Hospital in Stevenage, Hertfordshire, when staff became aware of the attack. I got there at 11am, went through the usual formalities. Got my gown on, they put a feed into my wrist to send dye around my blood stream. I was put in the scanner for 10 minutes and then I was pulled out again. The nurses were saying something about a cyber-attack meaning their systems were down. They weren't sure when it was going to start again so I waited for a bit. But it never happened and I went home. I was meant to have a chest X-ray as well and that was cancelled. I gave them my mobile number and they said they'd ring me back telling me when to come in. You've got to sympathise with the nurses as they will have to work extra hours. It was unbelievable you don't expect to go to hospital in the middle of a cyber-attack. Damn nuisance. The virus, identified as WannaCry, exploits a vulnerability in Microsoft Windows software first identified by the US National Security Agency, experts have said. Kingsley Manning, a former chairman of NHS Digital, said the government and the NHS had been "very well aware" that a cyber-attack was a threat and "significant amounts of money" had been invested "in anticipation that this sort of thing would happen". Cyber-security responsibility After the home secretary expressed disappointment that some health trusts were still operating computer systems on Windows XP, despite having been advised to upgrade, Mr Manning claimed that several hundred thousand computers were still running Windows XP. He added that the government would have been aware of that. Mr Manning told BBC Radio 4's PM programme: "Some trusts took the advice that was offered to them very seriously and acted on it and some of them may not have done. "If you're sitting in a hard-pressed hospital in the middle of England, it is difficult to see that as a greater priority than dealing with outpatients or A&E. "It's very difficult to get individual trusts to use the money for this purpose." NHS Digital said that 4.7% of devices within the NHS use Windows XP, with the figure continuing to decrease. How did the attack work? Experts discuss the attack: "The most terrifying thing about this is how simple it is." The ransomware used in the attack is called WannaCry and attacks Windows operating systems. It encrypts files on a user's computer, blocking them from view, before demanding money, via an on-screen message, to access them again. The malware seems to have spread via a computer virus known as a worm. Unlike many other malicious programs, this one has the ability to move around a network by itself. Most others rely on humans to spread by tricking them into clicking on an attachment harbouring the attack code. Some experts say the attackers used a weakness in Microsoft systems which is known to the US National Security Agency as "EternalBlue". A cybersecurity researcher tweeting as @malwaretechblog has claimed to have found a way to slow down the spread of the virus after registering a domain name hidden in the malware. He said that the malware makes a request to a domain name, but if it is live the malware stops spreading. A security update - or patch - was released by Microsoft in March to protect against the virus, but it appears many organisations have not applied the patch - or may still be using outdated systems like Windows XP. Get news from the BBC in your inbox, each weekday morningScams are costing Northern Ireland shoppers '£100m' a year 8 December 2011 A number of the scams are related to offers online Christmas shoppers in Northern Ireland have been warned to be on their guard against the top five retail scams. The Department of Enterprise's Trading Standards Service has issued the appeal. It said scams are estimated to cost NI consumers £100m every year. This year's top five festive scams include fake credit providers promising fast loans online and "I've been robbed" emails asking for money. The other scams are fraudulent software support companies phoning to say your computer has a virus which is stealing all your bank details, fake websites selling counterfeit goods and "free trials" of slimming and beauty products which actually commit you to large monthly payments. Damien Doherty of Trading Standards Service (TSS) said there had been about 50 complaints since the start of November about the purchase of counterfeit goods online. He said the majority related to fake Ugg boots and GHD hair straighteners. "People will see a website which says UK Ugg boots, UK GHD," he said. "If it is a .co.uk the website is registered in a domain in the UK, if it is .com it can be registered anywhere in the world. "The majority of the counterfeit websites are actually Chinese websites, you can do a 'who is?' check online which shows you where the website is registered, if it is China or the Far East, the chances are the goods are fake. "While we may all think that we are too canny to get caught out by the scammers, evidence shows otherwise." 'Industry' Mr Doherty said the current uncertain economic climate was "providing an ideal opportunity for scams to thrive" and that TSS was "being inundated daily with complaints". "This is a multi-billion pound industry, the reason they get away with it is the consumers love a bargain," he added. He said he was aware of hundreds of people who had lost anything from £150 to £5000 in fast loan schemes. "A lot of people have lost a lot of money they can ill afford," he added. Anyone who has been the victim of a scam or has information about a suspected scam can contact Consumerline, which is run in partnership between the Consumer Council and the Northern Ireland Trading Standards Service, on 0300 123 6262.Is Iran already under covert attack? By Frank Gardner 15 November 2011 Seventeen Revolutionary Guards were killed in the explosion at Bid Ganeh at the weekend Assassinations of nuclear scientists, a sophisticated cyber-attack, and now, last weekend, a mysterious blast at a munitions base that has killed the "godfather" of Iran's ballistic missile programme. The explosion at the Bid Ganeh base was so powerful, it killed 17 Revolutionary Guard Corps soldiers and rattled windows in Tehran several miles away. Iran says it was an accident, but few who follow events there are convinced. The recent talk may be all about a future, desperate last-ditch military strike by Israel to destroy Iran's suspected nuclear weapons programme, but to all appearances, a covert "black ops" campaign to disrupt it has already been under way for some time. At least three Iranian nuclear scientists have been killed in the past two years, and last winter, a computer virus codenamed Stuxnet was introduced into Iran's nuclear enrichment centrifuges, causing havoc and setting back the programme by several months. Mahan Abedin, a leading researcher in terrorism studies, says: "The assassination of Iran's scientists and the introduction of the Stuxnet computer virus last year constitute state terrorism." No-one, of course, is claiming responsibility for these actions, but US intelligence is widely believed to have had a hand in developing the Stuxnet virus, while Iranian officials have previously accused Israel of being behind the assassinations. Of all the countries in the region to feel threatened by Iran, Israel is most alarmed by the Iranian nuclear programme. On Sunday Israeli Defence Minister Ehud Barak said of the explosion at the base: "I don't know the extent of the explosion but, it would be desirable if they multiplied." International concern Plenty of other countries share Israel's concerns about Iran's growing military power, though they tend not to express it publicly. On Tuesday, a Gulf Arab official who asked not to be named told the BBC: "We are very worried about Iran, it's getting to the point where it's a very dangerous scenario. 2012 is a crucial year when decisions are going to have to be taken". In a cable leaked by Wikileaks, it emerged Saudi Arabia's King Abdullah had urged the US to deal decisively with Iran and stop its suspected nuclear weapons programme. The Saudi monarch used the poetic language of the Nejdi desert, urging Washington to "cut off the head of the snake". The UAE, involved in a long-running territorial dispute with Iran over three Gulf islands, has also been quietly urging the West to contain Iran and stop it acquiring a nuclear bomb. Bahrain's Sunni monarchy also sees Iran as essentially a hostile neighbour bent on stirring up Bahrain's Shia majority and encouraging it to press for an Islamic republic. Last week, the Bahrain government announced it had uncovered a terrorist plot to blow up the causeway linking it to Saudi Arabia, adding that the suspects had links to Iran. 'Latent capability' But at a forum on Iran hosted in London on Monday by the International Institute of Strategic Studies (IISS), many voiced the view that Iran was hell-bent on acquiring the nuclear bomb and there was very little that was going to deflect it. Referring to the steady ratcheting up of Western sanctions on Iran, Sir Richard Dalton, the UK's ambassador to Tehran from 2002-06, said: "There is no sanctions policy out there that will change Iran's behaviour." However he questioned the benefit of the apparent covert action against Iran, saying "whoever is behind these actions needs to make the case for them publicly, and I'm not sure at all that that case holds water." Mr Abedin said: "No tool, no pressure, not even the toughest of sanctions, nor even military conflict will work [to steer Iran away from becoming a nuclear weapons power]." Mark Fitzpatrick, the IISS resident expert on Iran's nuclear programme, is in no doubt which direction Iran is heading. He told the forum: "I think Iran probably already has a latent nuclear weapons capability."Testing and tracing 'key to schools returning', scientists say By James Gallagher 4 August 2020 Current testing and contact tracing is inadequate to prevent a second wave of coronavirus after schools in the UK reopen, scientists have warned. Increased transmission would also result from parents not having to stay at home with their children, they say. Researchers said getting pupils back to school was important - but more work was needed to keep the virus in check. The head of the NHS test and trace scheme said it was "already delivering" and on the right track for future. Baroness Dido Harding said: "I absolutely don't accept that this is failure, it's the opposite." She said more testing is required but maintained the current level of contact tracing was "well within the bounds" of what the researchers "are saying is necessary". The UK government said plans were in place to ensure schools can reopen safely at the start of the school year. England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland have separate contact tracing systems. Asked about the estimate that only 50% of contacts are being traced in England, Simon Clarke, minister for regional growth, told the BBC government figures were higher. He said NHS test and trace is "maturing all the time" and getting children back to school in the autumn is a "top priority" that the government would not "be willing to trade". "You're building an entirely new infrastructure which there's no precedent for," he said. "But we're confident it is working, we're confident that it will continue to improve, and we're confident that it will allow schools to open safely in the autumn." 'Very bad surges' Dr David Nabarro, the World Health Organization's special envoy on Covid-19, said the virus is "capable of surging back really quickly" and stressed the importance of being able to trace, test and isolate people. "If we can do that, and do it well, then the surges are kept really small, they're dealt with quickly and life can go on," he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. He later said he thinks Britain "will do really well" because there is "really good attention to where the virus is locally" and a lot of "public engagement in getting on top of it". A government spokesman said local authorities will "be able to determine the best action to take to help curb the spread of the virus should there be a rise in cases". Researchers from UCL and the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine used computer models to see how the virus might spread in the UK as pupils returned to the classroom and their parents were more able to go back to work or resume other activities. The study assumes children are less likely to catch - and therefore spread - coronavirus and that some parents would continue to work from home. As first reported in June , the combined effect on pupils and parents would be enough to cause a second wave if there was no effective test-and-trace programme. This would happen around December 2020 and would be twice as big as the first peak, unless the government took other actions such as reimposing lockdown. The study, now formally published in the Lancet Child and Adolescent Health , shows a second wave could be prevented if: 'Doesn't look good enough' However, the researchers said NHS test and trace in England was falling short. They estimate only half of contacts are being traced and while it is harder to know the percentage of people being tested, they say this also appears too low. "It is not achieving the levels we have modelled. It doesn't look good enough to me," said Prof Chris Bonell, from the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. Dr Jasmina Panovska-Griffiths, from UCL, added: "With UK schools reopening fully in September, prevention of a second wave will require a major scale-up of testing to test 75% of symptomatic infections - combined with tracing of 68% of their contacts, and isolation of symptomatic and diagnosed cases." How test-and-trace works: Schools have been shut around the world as countries used lockdowns to control the spread of Covid-19. It is estimated 1.6 billion children have been kept out of the classroom. In the UK, schools closed on 20 March, except to children of key workers or vulnerable children. On 1 June, they began a limited reopening for early years pupils, Reception, Year 1 and Year 6. Schools are due to restart for all children in Scotland on 11 August and across the UK in early September. But every step taken to open up society makes it easier for the coronavirus to spread. Cases are already starting to rise and the idea of closing pubs in order to open schools has already been floated . The UK government's chief medical adviser, Prof Chris Whitty, has said "we are near the limit" of what we can do without causing a resurgence. The individual nations of the UK have their own contact tracing systems. The government said NHS test and trace in England has reached 80% of those testing positive and traced over 75% of their contacts. The Welsh government said its advisory group recommended that schools open in September with all pupils present on site, and "we should be aiming to trace an estimated 80% of contacts, at least 35% of which are to be traced within 24 hours". Since 21 June, 90% of close contacts were reached by the service, according to Welsh government figures . A Scottish government spokesperson said guidance set out "a number of specific risk-mitigation measures that will need to be introduced" including an "enhanced surveillance programme". In Northern Ireland, the latest figures for the week to 29 July showed 98% of contacts were successfully reached by the country's contact tracing service. Follow James on Twitter Do you work in test and trace? Or are you a parent? Share your views and experiences by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk . Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist.Cyber-criminals are threat to society, warns forensics boss By Danny Shaw 11 October 2019 Eurofins had to stop accepting samples from crime scenes A senior manager at Eurofins, the UK's biggest forensic services provider which was hit by a cyber-attack in June, has warned the country to "ready itself" for further attacks. A ransomware virus infected the firm's computer systems, laboratory work was suspended for seven weeks and police investigations and trials were delayed. In his first interview since the incident, Mark Pearse told BBC News it could happen to any organisation. "It's a threat to society," he said. "There is no sector that's immune to this," said Mr Pearse, commercial director of Eurofins in four countries, including Britain. "We've got the transport sector, the energy sector, the health sector, other public organisations, the criminal justice system. "We're all vulnerable," he said. 'Grinding halt' The cyber-attack affected Eurofins' IT systems in the 47 countries where it operates. Mr Pearse said he was first told about it in a call at 05:00, as he was about to catch a flight from Manchester Airport, and spent the day on the phone dealing with the fallout. "The labs are quite dependent on IT and everything these days is either controlled by IT, all the data is stored on servers, and so the processes quickly came to a grinding halt," he explained. Eurofins' forensic science division in the UK, where it has seven sites and 60% of the market, was especially badly hit, so after consulting police chiefs and senior prosecutors, the company decided to stop accepting samples of blood, DNA and other scientific evidence from suspects, victims and crime scenes. "It has huge implications," said Mr Pearse, a molecular cell biologist who used to work for the Metropolitan Police and the state-run Forensic Science Service . "We're the biggest private provider so that was quite a decision to make," he said. "We do many hundreds, many thousands of cases and samples... "So very quickly the job in hand was partly to investigate the cyber-incident, and the consequences from an IT perspective... and to provide continuity of service." Ransom paid? The National Police Chiefs' Council co-ordinated emergency measures to manage the flow of specimens submitted for analysis so that the most serious cases were given priority by other providers. "Inevitably, if you take 60% or so of the capacity out of the forensic science sector you can't carry on as 'business as usual'," said Mr Pearse. "The other suppliers can't cope with all the work so backlogs, to a limited degree, did build up in police forces." Towards the end of July a backlog of 20,000 samples had developed but that has now been cut to around 10,000 as services have returned to normal. BBC News was told that Eurofins had paid the cyber-criminals a ransom to restore its IT systems but Mr Pearse refused to comment. "The National Crime Agency is now taking an international lead in the criminal investigation into this crime on Eurofins group and that investigation is ongoing and will probably be ongoing for some months and therefore it's subject to those usual constraints," he said.Iran's Bushehr nuclear plant connected to national grid 4 September 2011 The reactor's generating unit at Bushehr began operating at a low level in May Iran's first nuclear power station has been connected to the country's electricity grid, state news reports. Bushehr was supplying 60 megawatts of its 1,000 megawatt capacity to the national grid, officials said. The reactor's generating unit began operating at a low level in May, prompting Israel and other nations to express fears the reactor could help Iran develop nuclear weapons. Tehran says its intentions are purely peaceful. But the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) has said it is "increasingly concerned" that Iran is also secretly working on components for a nuclear weapons programme. Dogged by delays Iran's Atomic Energy Organisation said the plant in the country's south was connected to the national grid at 23:30 (19:00 GMT) on Saturday. The connection had initially been scheduled for late last year but, as with developments at Bushehr since the project began in the 1970s, it was dogged by delays. Construction on the plant was abandoned after Iran's 1979 Islamic revolution until the mid-1990s, when Moscow reached a billion-dollar deal with Tehran to complete it. In February, Iran had to remove fuel from the reactor "for technical reasons", amid speculation that the Stuxnet computer virus may have been responsible. The United States and other Western nations for years urged Russia to abandon the project, warning it could help Iran build atomic weapons. But an agreement obliging Tehran to repatriate spent nuclear fuel to Russia eased those concerns. In February, an IAEA report obtained by the BBC and made available online by the Institute for Science and International Security (Isis) - said Iran was "not implementing a number of its obligations." These included "clarification of the remaining outstanding issues which give rise to concerns about possible military dimensions to its nuclear programme". Six world powers are negotiating with Iran over its nuclear programme, and the country is subject to United Nations Security Council sanctions over its refusal to halt uranium enrichment. Enriched uranium can be used for civilian nuclear purposes, but also to build atomic bombs.Cyber-blackmail: How to keep safe and deal with it By Emma Brant and Amelia Butterly 20 September 2013 Hundreds of British children are being blackmailed into performing sex acts online, the Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre has warned. Abusers talk victims into sexual acts or sharing images, then threaten to send pictures to family and friends. Ceop said in 12 cases over two years, 424 children had been blackmailed in this way - 184 of them in the UK. Daniel Perry, who died aged 17, is thought to have been blackmailed with online footage before his death. The teenager is thought to have believed he was chatting with an American girl but was told by blackmailers the conversations had been recorded. Daniel Perry is thought to have been blackmailed with footage of himself They then threatened to share the video with friends and family unless he paid money. Daniel Perry, from Dunfermline in Fife, died on 15 July. What is cyber-blackmail? Cyber-blackmail is the act of threatening to share information about a person to the public, their friends or family, unless a demand is met or money is paid. Safety tips on how to avoid being blackmailed online Other tips for staying safe online Tips for staying safe on your phone Follow @BBCNewsbeat on Twitter Click here to Tweet this story from your accountCybercrime and fraud scale revealed in annual figures 19 January 2017 Comments Cybercrime and fraud were included in the annual statistics for the first time There were an estimated 3.6 million cases of fraud and two million computer misuse offences in a year, according to an official survey. The Crime Survey for England and Wales included the offences for the first time in its annual report, which covered the year to September. Separate figures recorded by police showed an 8% rise in offences overall. The Office for National Statistics said crime recording improvements meant the police figures could not reveal trends. 'Crime has changed' John Flatley, from the ONS, said: "In the past, burglary and theft of vehicles were the high-volume crimes driving trends but their numbers have fallen substantially since then. "When the crime survey started [35 years ago], fraud was not considered a significant threat and the internet had yet to be invented. "Today's figures demonstrate how crime has changed, with fraud now the most commonly experienced offence." Sir Tom Winsor, the Chief Inspector of Constabulary for England and Wales, told the You and Yours programme on BBC Radio 4 that many frauds went undetected and a great deal never got reported to the police. "The amount of fraud that is taking place now is probably in epidemic proportions," he added. "The police are having to work very, very hard to keep up with even the ones they know about. "The capability at police forces is quite skeletal and that needs to change and change a great deal." The National Police Chiefs' Council lead for crime and incident recording, Chief Constable Jeff Farrar, said forces were working with the Home Office, police and crime commissioners, and industry experts to develop new tactics to fight cybercrime. "The ability to commit crime online demonstrates the need for policing to adapt and transform to tackle these cyber challenges," he said. Cyber and fraud: What is being counted? There are two broad categories of "computer misuse" crimes: Des Dillon, who runs a student accommodation company, told BBC Radio 5 live he had become a victim of cybercrime after being tricked into giving away information that led to the loss of £230,000 from his company bank account. "Over a couple of phone calls, he asked me for various [information], third number, fourth number and ninth letter, that type of thing, and obviously he put it together very quickly," he said. "We've recouped [over] £100,000, we're outstanding £113,000. We managed to block and recoup the balance and now we're fighting [with the bank] about the other portion of it." Katy Worobec, director of Financial Fraud Action UK, said banks had managed to stop £6 in every £10 targeted by criminals in the first half of 2016, but that people needed to be aware of the threat. "While the industry invests in new systems to stop the criminals, fraudsters are increasingly targeting people directly," she said. "Customers and businesses need to be alert to the threats posed by the continued rise in impersonation scams attempting to trick them out of their personal details and money." Homicide rise All but one police force - Nottinghamshire - recorded an increase in violent crime last year. The largest percentage increases were logged by Northumbria Police, up 95%, Durham Police (73%), West Yorkshire Police (48%) and Avon and Somerset Police (45%). "Violence against a person" offences now include revenge pornography and internet trolling, which the ONS believes contributed towards the 22% rise from last year. Police recorded 695 homicides in the 12 months to the end of September - 125 more than the previous year. This included the 96 cases of manslaughter resulting from the 1989 Hillsborough disaster, because the inquest verdicts were returned during the last recording period. Excluding those deaths, there was still a 5% rise in homicides. Criminals looking for new opportunities By Dominic Casciani, BBC home affairs correspondent The figures for fraud and computer misuse show how behind the curve our statistics have fallen. It is undeniable that the overall level of crime has been falling across the industrialised world for a quarter of a century, as report after report on our experiences show we are less and less likely to be victims. However, while traditional crimes such as burglary and theft fall, criminal gangs look for new opportunities by exploiting gaps in online and banking security. The brutal fact is that nobody knows how big the problem is. It is massively underreported and, outside of London, it is arguable that national policing hasn't yet got the skills or the expert manpower it needs. A good detective must have the skills to catch a burglar or killer, but very few of them have the skills to analyse screens of information and find criminals who have taken the digital road to a life of crime. While there was a 23% increase in attempted murders, the ONS said this may have been "influenced" by improved crime recording. Recorded offences involving a knife or sharp weapon hit their highest level for five years, up 11% up on the previous year to 30,838. There was a 7% rise in gun crime, which BBC home affairs correspondent Danny Shaw said had been mainly driven by an increase in offences involving handguns and shotguns, but added that some of the increase might be accounted for by better firearm identification processes. Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe said the crime figures were akin to "the warning lights flashing." Investing in security Policing minister Brandon Lewis said reforms of the police were "working" and the offences "traditionally" measured by the survey - before the inclusion of fraud and cybercrime - had fallen by 370,000. Mr Lewis said the government was investing £1.9bn in cybersecurity over five years , adding that the survey helped inform efforts. "Understanding more about these crimes will help us continue to protect those who are vulnerable," he said.Iran 'halted enrichment temporarily' says UN watchdog 23 November 2010 Iran has denied that the virus had damaged any of its nuclear plants Iran temporarily stopped enriching uranium earlier in November, according to the UN nuclear watchdog. The International Atomic Energy Agency gave no reason for the temporary halt in the enrichment of low-grade uranium. But there was speculation that a complex computer worm which infected the personal computers of staff at the country's first nuclear power station, at Bushehr, might be the reason. Iran on Tuesday denied that the Stuxnet worm had caused any damage. The West fears Iran's ultimate goal is to build nuclear weapons. Iran says its programme is aimed solely at peaceful energy use. 'Real problems' In a report leaked to several news agencies, the IAEA said that none of the centrifuge units at Iran's Natanz plant were being fed for enrichment to lower-levels when inspectors visited the site on 16 November. On both earlier and subsequent visits more than 4,800 such centrifuges were being fed with nuclear material. It was not clear whether the technical problems suffered at the plant, which are reported to have included power fluctuations, were due to the computer virus. One senior diplomat quoted anonymously by Reuters news agency said that Iran was using an old centrifuge model which has been dogged by breakdowns for years. "I don't think you can necessarily blame Stuxnet entirely. There could be some other issues but clearly they have been having some real problems," the senior diplomat told Reuters. Cyber experts say the worm, which Iran said in September had attacked its computers, has been configured to damage centrifuges and is capable of seizing control of industrial plants. Some Western experts have said its complexity suggests it could only have been created by a "nation state". Senior Iranian officials have said that the virus is evidence that an "electronic war" has been launched against the country.In Paris, searching for the comfort of the familiar 22 November 2015 The BBC's Kevin Connolly finds Paris in the wake of the attacks subdued but stoical - and takes comfort in the fact that, on the surface, ordinary life continues as before. November was never really the month to visit Paris. It's not quite Christmas, when the cold brittle lights of the great department stores glisten in the December darkness. And it's a long way from April with its sensuous hint of warmer, longer evenings to come. At this time of year fallen leaves still lie around the plane trees, as though they've been shrugged off in an involuntary shudder at the coming of winter. Some things here never change of course. Order pig's trotters in the best restaurant near my old apartment building and they still come with a diamond pattern burned in to the crispy skin on the grill, as though they were wearing Argyll socks. And riders of motor scooters still squirm irritatingly through lines of static traffic in a clumsy waddle as though they were carrying the weight of the bike between their clenched buttocks. You find yourself searching for the comfort of the familiar at moments like this, when things are superficially familiar but when the truth is that they've been changed utterly. This time last month Paris was the capital of a country that was involved in a very modern type of war, in which laser-guided, computer-controlled missiles were being dropped on targets in Syria, a distant former colony. Now it is a front line in a modern form of conflict in which the comfortable landscape of any European or American city can become a physical battlefield. The enemy wears no uniform and acknowledges no law of war. Its foot-soldiers could be a man or woman sitting next to you on a bus who work alongside you, who grew up hearing the same news and studying the same history lessons as you - and came to dangerously different conclusions. They might live alongside you as sleepers for years before strapping on a suicide vest or picking up an assault rifle and venturing with deadly intent into the same streets they travel on their daily journey to work. Of course the truth is that almost all of the commuters sitting around you looking bored or tired or apprehensive are exactly what they seem. France, its politicians say, is at war but it's an exhausting, nerve-wracking kind of war in which nothing might happen for months or  years but where equally tomorrow may bring the chaos and fear of the battlefield to the streets of the city. Terrorists target the comfortable certainties of daily life. A big part of what they want is that nagging fear they install at the back of your mind like a computer virus. Is that jumpy-looking young man with a rucksack a suicide bomber or just a nervous student on his way to an exam? When you say goodbye to your children on their way to a party in a bar or to a rock concert are you really saying goodbye? What good does it do to say "Take care," or "Safe journey," to the people you love when you know that no amount of care that they might take will really protect them and that the safety of their journey is not really in their own hands? All of this week, Parisians have been thinking all of these thoughts and yet somehow life here has ground on in the gathering gloom of November. But if the weapon of the terrorist is fear and the uncertainty that flows from it, well, we ordinary citizens of Paris, Peterhead, Peoria and points beyond have a weapon of our own. It is the dogged durability that got Parisians out to work again in the days after those terrible attacks - the foot soldiers' ability to soldier on through the darkness. Paris is a little subdued just now - not quite as I remember it. But people are eating in restaurants, and working in offices and factories and grumbling in queues. Life has gone on not with some great show of bravado but with a kind of determination that is all the more impressive for being understated. So maybe I was wrong to say that November is not the best time to be here. It  is a little grey and rainy and the fears and uncertainties about the future are real enough… but when you think about the endless emotions the old place has lived through in a week, really, it's never looked better to me. How to listen to From Our Own Correspondent : BBC Radio 4: Saturdays at 11:30 Listen online or download the podcast . BBC World Service: At weekends - see World Service programme schedule or listen online . Subscribe to the BBC News Magazine's email newsletter to get articles sent to your inbox.Company directors targeted by identity fraudsters By Kevin Peachey 15 June 2017 Company directors are the victims of one in five cases of identity fraud, according to fraud prevention organisation Cifas. They account for 19% of victims of these type of fraud cases, despite making up less than 9% of the UK population. Directors have been targeted directly by scams owing to the potential for con-artists to steal large sums. Fraud victims are most likely to be aged between 31 and 50, Cifas said. However, the biggest rise in 2016 from the previous year was among those aged 21 and under. The report, by Cifas and LexisNexis Risk Solutions, also warned that fraudsters were attempting to obtain credit files as a pre-cursor to committing identity fraud. Some 47% of recorded identity frauds involving fraudulently obtained credit files from company directors took place in London and the South East of England. In comparison, Wales and the North East of England each accounted for 2% of these fraud cases. Social engineering The vast majority of identity fraud takes place when a fraudster pretends to be an individual, so as to buy a product or take out a loan in their name. Fraudsters get hold of the necessary personal material by stealing mail, computer hacking, obtaining data on the dark web, and exploiting personal information on social media, according to Cifas. They can also gather it though social engineering, where people give up personal information to someone pretending to be from their bank, the police or a retailer. Cifas advises people to shred important paper documents - and use passwords, privacy settings and anti-virus software on their computers. How to protect yourself from identity crimes Source: CifasWilliam Hague: UK is under cyber-attack 4 February 2011 Foreign Secretary William Hague: "A malicious file was sent to a defence contractor" Attempts by cyber-criminals and hostile intelligence agencies to attack the British government have been outlined by the foreign secretary. William Hague told a conference in Munich how government computers had been infected by a virus last year. He also detailed an attempt to steal data from a UK defence contractor. Mr Hague claimed cyberspace was providing "rich pickings" for criminals and urged governments to move faster to counter the threat. In his speech, Mr Hague went into detail about some of the recent attacks to which systems in the UK have been exposed. Some computers belonging to the British government had been infected with the "Zeus" computer virus, he said, after users had opened an e-mail purporting to come from the White House and followed a link. Mr Hague said: "Our experts were able to clear up this infection but more sophisticated attacks such as these are becoming more common." Defence contractors in the UK were also being targeted, the foreign secretary said, describing an attempt by someone masquerading as an employee of another defence firm to send a malicious file designed to steal information. 'Hostile state agency' Mr Hague also said that last month three of his staff had been sent an e-mail apparently from another colleague in the Foreign Office. In fact the e-mail was "from a hostile state intelligence agency" and contained "code embedded in the attached document that would have attacked their machine." The foreign secretary said the e-mail had been prevented from reaching its intended targets. "These are the kind of threats we are now facing every day," he said. Mr Hague said these kinds of cyber-threats called for a "global response", with like-minded countries agreeing standards of behaviour on the internet. He added that the UK was determined to be at the forefront of attempts to safeguard liberties on the net, but warned that many countries were "actively working against us in a hostile manner."Beautiful People site issued challenge by security blogger Rory Cellan-Jones @BBCRoryCJ 21 June 2011 Comments Just after I had written about hoaxes fooling journalists yesterday , what appears to be another great example reared its ugly head. Or rather its alluring visage because this one involved the dating site Beautiful People. The story was that a computer virus, handily named Shrek, had attacked the sites systems, allowing 30,000 people to evade the normal beauty screening procedures and gain access to the site. Now they were being chucked off the site, to their great distress, and offered counselling for the pain that caused them. Well guess what - journalists loved this story. All sorts of respectable new outlets - including it must be said parts of the BBC - rushed to cover it, so that the name beautifulpeople.com was heard across the land, indeed around the globe. But one respected security blogger immediately smelled something rather ugly. Graham Cluley of Sophos pointed out that the website said it had not informed any computer security firms about the Shrek attack because it was being investigated internally and member privacy had not been affected. Phew! So, lots of publicity for the website but nothing for current or future members to worry about then. How convenient! Mr Cluley's conclusion is that this was all just a publicity stunt. He points out that the sites PR firm Golden Goose won a prestigious public relations award for a previous story about Beautiful People members letting themselves go over Christmas. But the site and its PR handlers reacted with hurt outrage at the suggestion that the story might perhaps have been the result of some creative thinking rather than a real hacker attack. A spokeswoman for the firm said it was a genuine incident which had cost a lot to repair: "Beautiful People had to refund over 61,000 to people who paid for premium services who were then rejected." Now Graham Cluley has issued a challenge via this tweet : "If Beautiful People forward the Shrek virus to an anti-virus firm for analysis Ill give 500 quid to Children in Need." Over to you, Beautiful People. Surely, having been damaged so badly by this evil piece of malware, the opportunity to earn some money for a great charity is too beautiful to miss?Iran says nuclear programme was hit by sabotage 29 November 2010 Iran had denied that the virus had damaged any of its nuclear plants Iran's president has said some of the centrifuges used in its uranium enrichment programme were sabotaged, raising suspicions that they were targeted by the Stuxnet computer worm. Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said the problems had been created by enemies of Iran, but had had only a limited effect. Iran has repeatedly denied that Stuxnet had affected its nuclear programme. The UN said last week that Iran had temporarily halted most of its uranium enrichment work earlier this month. The West fears Iran's ultimate goal is to build nuclear weapons. Iran says its programme is aimed solely at peaceful energy use. "They succeeded in creating problems for a limited number of our centrifuges with the software they had installed in electronic parts," Mr Ahmadinejad told a news conference. "Our specialists stopped that and they will not be able to do it again," he added without elaborating on the software thought to have been used. The Vienna-based International Atomic Energy Agency said in a report last week that a temporary stoppage had hit Iran's Natanz enrichment nuclear plant earlier this month. Experts say the worm, which Iran said in September had attacked its computers, has been specially configured to damage motors commonly used in uranium-enrichment centrifuges by sending them spinning out of control. The computer virus is a form of customised malware, written to attack a precise target. Analysts say the complexity of the code suggests it was created by a "nation state" in the West, rather than an organised crime group. Senior Iranian officials have said that the virus is evidence that an "electronic war" has been launched against the country. Mr Ahmadinejad's comments about the cyber attack worm come on the day that a high-profile Iranian nuclear scientist was killed and another wounded in two separate but similar attacks in the capital. The president accused Israel and the West of being behind the attacks.Iran's Bushehr nuclear plant begins operation 10 May 2011 The Bushehr nuclear plant has been hit by repeated delays Iran's first nuclear power station has begun operating at a low level, says the Russian company that built it. The generating unit at the Bushehr reactor was brought up to the "minimum controllable level of power" on Sunday. "This is one of the final stages in the physical launch of the reactor," said Vladislav Bochkov, a spokesman for the Russian company Atomstroyexport. Israel and other nations have expressed fears that the reactor could help Iran develop nuclear weapons. In February, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) said it had new information on "possible military dimensions" to Iran's nuclear plans. But Tehran says its intentions are purely peaceful. On Monday, a member of an Iranian parliamentary commission monitoring Bushehr said "final tests" were being conducted. The following day, Atomstroyexport said it had launched "a self-supporting chain reaction" in the "active zone" of the plant's first reactor. "This means that a nuclear reaction has begun," it said. Iran's Fars news agency said the plant would start providing power to the national grid within two months. Western concerns The Bushehr project was begun in 1970s but it has been dogged by delays. Construction on the plant was abandoned after Iran's 1979 Islamic revolution until the mid-1990s, when Moscow reached a billion-dollar deal with Tehran to complete it. In February, Iran had to remove fuel from the reactor "for technical reasons", amid speculation that the Stuxnet computer virus may be responsible. The United States and other Western nations for years urged Russia to abandon the project, warning it could help Iran build atomic weapons. But an agreement obliging Tehran to repatriate spent nuclear fuel to Russia eased those concerns. In February, an IAEA report obtained by the BBC and made available online by the Institute for Science and International Security (Isis) - said Iran was "not implementing a number of its obligations." These include "clarification of the remaining outstanding issues which give rise to concerns about possible military dimensions to its nuclear programme". Six world powers are negotiating with Iran over its nuclear programme, and the country is subject to United Nations Security Council sanctions over its refusal to halt uranium enrichment. Enriched uranium can be used for civilian nuclear purposes, but also to build atomic bombs.