Carl Frampton says united voice needed to ease NI tension 2 days ago 'I was one of those kids' Northern Ireland's politicians need to provide a "united voice" to ease tensions and help young people in working class areas, retired boxing champion Carl Frampton has said. The fighter, who grew up in Tiger's Bay in north Belfast, said he was angry and frustrated after seeing recent violence involving loyalist and nationalist youths. More investment and leadership was needed for such areas, he said. But it would not be an "easy fix". Admitting that he took part in rioting in his youth, the former boxer said much of the violence is "recreational" and "there is not a lot to do in some of these areas for kids". "I was one of them kids and when there was a riot going on at the bottom of my street growing up in Tiger's Bay, you got involved in it," he told BBC News NI. "Not because you were a bad kid but because you were excited by it and there literally was not much else to do." Police came under attack in the Tiger's Bay area in April Dozens of police officers were injured during several nights of rioting in Londonderry, Belfast, Newtownabbey, Carrickfergus and Ballymena during late March and early April. The loyalist Tiger's Bay area was one of the flashpoints. "You've got a few emotions when you see stuff like that," said Frampton. Carl Frampton says he wants to give back to working class areas in his retirement "I think projects and money needs to be pumped into these kind of working class areas to help kids with educational programmes, whatever it may be, with jobs, with opportunities and this can be sorted out. "I wouldn't say it's an easy fix but I think that a united voice from politicians, especially on this matter, and it can be repaired." Discussing his post-retirement plans, Frampton said he would consider setting up a foundation or engaging with community projects to help young people in working class areas. "Places like Tiger's Bay where I'm from and Poleglass where my wife's from, and the New Lodge, Falls, Shankill, wherever - I want to give back and help kids really and give kids opportunities," he said. "Hopefully that can be something that I can think about in the future." Frampton announced his retirement from boxing after he was stopped by Jamel Herring in a WBO super-featherweight contest on 3 April. He had been bidding to become Ireland's first three-weight world champion.Mozambique Palma attack: Why IS involvement is exaggerated 6 days ago Residents of Palma, northern Mozambique, are trying to get back to normality in the wake of the attack The recent insurgent raid on the Mozambican town of Palma made global headlines because foreigners were killed and because the Islamic State group said it was behind it, leading to sharp divisions as to how Mozambique's four-year-old conflict should be interpreted, writes analyst Dr Joseph Hanlon. Palma had always been a sleepy fishing town, until last year it was transformed into a thriving hub for Mozambique's burgeoning gas industry. The French company Total began to develop a $20bn (£14.6bn) gas liquification plant for the second largest gas reserve in Africa. Total was developing its own walled compound with airstrip and pier on the Afungi Peninsula 10km (6 miles) south of Palma. But the contractors and service industry were all based in Palma, which saw a building boom of hotels, banks and construction yards. When the insurgents entered on 24 March they were attacking a rapidly growing town with significant foreign investment and more than 1,000 foreign workers linked to the gas industry. Just two weeks before, the US had labelled the insurgents as "ISIS-Mozambique" and designated it as a Foreign Terrorist Organization (FTO). Four days after the attack, the Islamic State group-aligned Amaq news agency issued a statement claiming that its fighters had attacked Palma and destroyed government offices and banks. IS claim debunked With IS claiming the Palma raid it made headlines. CBS news called it an "Isis militant siege" with hundreds of foreign workers cowering in fear. The UK's Daily Mirror newspaper called it "Isis terror" and a "jihadist massacre". The UK's Times newspaper had earlier headlined: Isis militants attack town housing foreign workers in Mozambique. But on the same day, before some of the newspaper headlines were published, the IS claim was debunked. Jasmine Opperman, Africa analyst at the Armed Conflict Location and Event Data project (Acled), who has been following the insurgency in Mozambique's Cabo Delgado province closely, showed that the videos and photos were not from Palma, but from Mocimboa da Praia, 65km to the south. Mozambican soldiers are on the streets of Palma, as seen in this picture taken on Monday One of the first things the insurgents now do in attacks is to cut all telecommunications links, mainly by using machetes to cut cables. In Palma, mobile phone connections went down just 30 minutes after the attack started. So IS and Amaq had no information on the raid. As well as false pictures, the only claims were vague ones that had already been published in international media. The claim was also the first one about Mozambique from IS or Amaq for five months. In 2019 the insurgents made links with IS, largely it appears to gain publicity, and did send mobile phone videos. They continued to stress that their target was the government, so a widely published photo shows insurgents with the black IS flag in front of a burned-out district administration building. But the insurgents continued to use the name given to them by local people, al-Shabab, which simply means "the youth" and has no connection with al-Shabab in Somalia. As Acled, the closest and most trusted monitor of the Cabo Delgado conflict, concluded in a recent report : "There is no evidence from the Palma attack that IS controls the strategic direction of the insurgency." Who are the insurgents? The insurgents are primarily Muslims from the coastal zone of Cabo Delgado, recruited by local fundamentalist preachers with a basically socialist message - that Sharia, or Islamic law, would bring equality and everyone would share in the coming resource wealth. The conflict has forced tens of thousands from their homes, including these children who are now studying at a temporary school The first attack was in 2017 on Mocimboa da Praia, the only city and port in this northern zone. The message and the promise of jobs and money led many young men to join the insurgency, and it gained support in local communities. The war spread to six districts, and five districts capitals - all except Palma - were attacked and occupied for some time. Insurgents have controlled Mocimboa da Praia and the only paved road for a year. A report based on interviews with women who escaped the insurgents in Palma was published on 12 April by João Feijó, technical director of the Rural Observatory of Mozambique (OMR) and one of the best-informed Mozambican researchers. The women revealed that some leaders are Tanzanians, some of who claim to be IS, and Somalis, who firmly said they were not IS, but rather part of another unidentified group. Town looted by the army The consensus is that the insurgency started locally and that foreign and IS involvement came later. The disagreement is over how important that is. The US view is that IS has hijacked the insurgency and taken it over. The view of most Mozambican researchers is that there is foreign and possibly IS involvement, but that al-Shabab is still locally run and retians local goals. This split leads to a huge division over the response. A message asking for help was seen on the grounds of a hotel in the town of Palma during the attack The insurgents walked and drove into Palma virtually unopposed, despite clear warnings over two months of an attack when the rains ended, and a government promise to Total to defend Palma. The army and paramilitary police are poorly trained and equipped, and unmotivated and hugely corrupt. The insurgents had largely not attacked the installations of Total contractors, and in the first week of April, after the attackers had left Palma, the army looted the city, breaking into contractor facilities. This was shown both in aerial photos and from first-hand reports from contractors, and even angry local government officials. Foreign interest in IS link There is a big push for a military response. In an 11 March press conference, John T Godfrey, US Acting Special Envoy for the Global Coalition to Defeat Isis, said: "We have to confront Isis in Africa." The US wants to be involved in Cabo Delgado to confront IS "terrorist activities" there. Portugal is sending trainers and as the current head of the EU Council is pushing for EU involvement. The South African military is already patrolling Mozambique's coast and would like boots on the ground. This is where the role of IS becomes central. No country can give the Mozambican government military support to fight its own peasants. But to fight a global enemy like IS provides the justification. In other words, IS and the US appear to have a common interest in promoting the importance of the jihadist group. For South Africa, promoters of the IS link warn that with similar levels of poverty in Cape Town, IS could use Cabo Delgado as a basis to move south, so South Africa should send troops. But if the insurgency is just a local peasant uprising, this does not hold. Mozambique's Frelimo government is extremely anxious that outsiders, and even local media, do not look at the roots of the war and point out how a Frelimo elite has become wealthy while ordinary people in Cabo Delgado became poorer. On 7 April President Filipe Nyusi said Mozambique needs help "for the fight against terrorism". But he added: "Those who arrive from abroad will not replace us, they will support us. It is a sense of sovereignty." With phone lines cut, relatives of those in Palma had an anxious wait for news Interviews with women who escaped the insurgents in Palma offer an alternative view to the government's. They said that the fighters have a great resentment towards the authorities, and their motivation is predominantly material - jobs and money. But many would like to leave the armed group if there was an alternative. More about the conflict in Mozambique: Dr Feijó, who conducted the interviews, argues that economic development, intensive farming and fishing should be used to attract the disaffected. The government appears happier to blame IS rather than its own policy failings for the continued conflict. But increasing numbers of Mozambicans are saying that creating thousands of jobs would end the war sooner and cost much less than a huge international military involvement. Joseph Hanlon is a visiting senior fellow in international development at the London School of Economics (LSE) and has written about Mozambique for many yearsDungiven: Fireball bomb bid to kill police officer and daughter 2 days ago Forensic investigation officers were at the scene on Tuesday afternoon A bomb left near a police officer's car outside her home in County Londonderry was an attempt to kill her and her young daughter, police have said. The explosive was attached to a container of flammable liquid next to her car in Dungiven on Monday. "This was designed to cause a fireball which would have engulfed the victim's car and anyone in it or close by," said Assistant Chief Constable Mark McEwan. Police believe the dissident republican group the New IRA was responsible. "What is really distressing here is the terrorists placed the bomb at the rear of the car directly at the point where the victim's three-year-old daughter sits," said ACC McEwan of the Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI). "This demonstrates the complete and utter disregard for the life of a mother and her toddler - this simply beggars belief." 'Campaign is futile' First Minister Arlene Foster and Deputy First Minister Michelle O'Neill have described the attempted attack as "reprehensible". "I do give thanks that she has survived this dreadful murder attempt," said Mrs Foster, the Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) leader. Police said the device was found at the officer's home on Monday morning "When I spoke to this lady earlier I gave her my prayerful support and indeed solidarity at this difficult time." "To the republicans who sought to murder this young mother, your campaign is futile, you will never succeed." ACC McEwan said dissident republicans were "still intent on recklessly targeting honest hardworking members of our community". "They have no concern at all for those that are killed or harmed in the process," he said. "It's time for people to examine their own conscience and ask themselves whether they support groups who are attempting to kill a three-year-old child and her mother. "We will be unrelenting in our efforts to bring these people to justice." The attack is believed to be the work of the New IRA, says ACC Mark McEwan Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) Chief Constable Simon Byrne said it was an "outrageous attack" on the officer and her family. Part of Ballyquin Road, which had been closed while police examined the scene, reopened on Tuesday evening. This sounds like some kind of supercharged incendiary bomb. It maybe has echoes of more of the improvised devices of the Troubles than what we have come to associate with New IRA attacks of recent years. In this instance, the police have not disclosed how this bomb was to have been triggered. That is not unusual. They can often hold certain information back and it remains unclear how this bomb was to have been set off. But for the PSNI this is a secondary fact. They say it was designed create a huge fireball smothering those in its vicinity in flames. Last summer we saw the alleged leadership of the New IRA arrested following an MI5 bugging operation . Ten people were remanded in custody, accused of 50 serious offences under the Terrorism Act. However, the group has been re-organising and despite that setback has remained dangerous. The threat level has stayed at severe and in its recent Easter message the New IRA vowed to continue its campaign. But until today you had to go back more than a year since the last New IRA attack on police. While the guard has not been down, the PSNI will undoubtedly be concerned the organisation has resurfaced in terms of attacks on its officers. Deputy First Minister Michelle O'Neill described the attempted attack as a "shocking and deplorable attempt on the life of a police officer that will rightly be reviled across the community". "Those behind this reckless attack have absolutely nothing to offer society and have shown a callous disregard for the entire community," said the Sinn Féin vice-president. "They seek only to drag our communities backwards; they have no place in our society and they should disband." Justice Minister Naomi Long said it was a "despicable and cowardly act". The Alliance Party leader added: "When a device explodes, it does not discriminate. It does not pick and choose who it injures or who it kills. "The people who sneaked around in the dark to plant this device have shown an utter disregard for human life, not only for this officer but for others living in the area or who may have been passing by." The Police Federation for Northern Ireland said the officer's dedication "to serving the community" was in stark contrast "to those who offer nothing but death and destruction". "Society has moved on and those engaged in such activity need to be consigned to the past," the federation added. Cowardly and disgraceful Northern Ireland Secretary Brandon Lewis said: "I want to convey my support for the officer concerned. "Those who try to attack public servants have nothing to offer the communities they claim to represent." Ulster Unionist leader Steve Aiken said it was a "cowardly attempt on the life of someone who is courageously putting her selflessness to the good of all of our community". SDLP leader and Foyle MP Colum Eastwood said the attempted attack was disgraceful. "Those responsible and their warped agenda are putting police officers and our community in danger," he added.Buckinghamshire farmer 'trampled to death by bulls', inquest hears 13 April Farmer Oliver Bowden was described as "the heart and soul of the Hambleden valley" by his family A farmer was trampled to death when he climbed into a pen housing 17 uncastrated bulls, an inquest heard. Oliver Bowden, 56, died at Mill End Farm in Hambleden, Buckinghamshire on 5 May. The father of four, who also had two grandchildren, was found in the pen by colleague Samuel Beer who called emergency services while trying to protect Mr Bowden. An inquest jury concluded that he died through misadventure. He died at the scene, having sustained fatal multiple injuries, including crushing to the chest and abdomen. 'He wasn't moving' The jury in Beaconsfield heard the family had farmed the land since the 1930s. Mr Beer said he found Mr Bowden after noticing a bucket and a shoe in the corner of the shed. In a statement, he said he jumped into the pen and "saw Oliver lying on the floor". "He had blood all over his face and head. I couldn't tell how bad his injuries were, but he wasn't moving." Mr Bowden was known to warn colleagues not to enter the bull pen alone Mr Beer said he tried to find Mr Bowden's pulse several times while he called the emergency services. "As I was doing this, I was attacked by a bull as I was standing over Oliver to protect him," he said. "I picked up a stick to hit the bull with it to try to get it to leave me alone, as I tried to help Oliver." He said he did not know how long Mr Bowden had been lying in the pen, or which bulls had attacked him or the farmer. An air ambulance crew arrived and pronounced Mr Bowden dead at about 15:50 BST. 'Boisterous and aggressive' A Health and Safety Executive (HSE) report produced at the inquest stated Mr Bowden was known to tell employees not to enter the bull pen by themselves. HSE inspector Nick Ward, said: "After eight months, bulls are known to be more boisterous and aggressive than castrated animals. "At no time should it be necessary to enter a pen of bulls to carry out any work." The day after the death, the 17 bulls were taken to an abattoir. Mr Bowden's family said they would no longer raise bulls for beef. His funeral cortege was followed by a 45-tractor procession. Find BBC News: East of England on Facebook , Instagram and Twitter . If you have a story suggestion email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.ukAustralian cyber attack: Which countries would do it? Cyber security expert Joshua Kennedy-White tells the BBC there are four countries with the capability and intent to carry out a cyber attack on Australia. Australian PM Scott Morrison said the attacks were widespread, covering "all levels of government" as well as essential service providers and businesses. He said the attack was by a "state actor", but declined to identify a culprit. 19 June 2020 BBC News AustraliaStreatham attack: What do prisons do to deradicalise inmates? By Dominic Casciani 3 February 2020 A man shot dead by officers on Sunday, during what police called an Islamist-related terrorist incident, had been out of prison for about a week. So, what is done in prisons to deradicalise people like Sudesh Amman, who stabbed people on Streatham High Street? What do we know of Amman's past? Amman, 20, served half of a sentence of three years and four months for terror offences. He pleaded guilty in November 2018 to six charges of possessing documents containing information useful to terrorists - and seven of passing them on. The documents included a "manual" on knife fighting. Before he was jailed, Amman had convictions for having a broken bottle as an offensive weapon and possessing cannabis. What's done to deradicalise terror offenders? A programme called Healthy Identities Intervention (HII) is the UK's main in-prison scheme to challenge the thinking of terrorism offenders. After the 2019 Fishmongers' Hall attack, the creator of the 10-year-old scheme, forensic psychologist Chris Dean, told the BBC there is no certainty all terrorism offenders can be reformed. It aims to get offenders to think carefully, often over a very long series of counselling sessions, why they chose to turn to terrorist violence. They are asked whether the violence, or support of it, defines their identity. Amman had previous convictions for having an offensive weapon and possessing cannabis In some cases, an offender may turn away from violence quickly. But it is often more difficult when prisoners who have spent years in jail, or supporting banned organisations, are involved. In the case of those aligned to jihadist organisations, prison service imams also get involved in religious counselling sessions. These have been criticised for using chaplains without the detailed knowledge of jihadist ideology required to break down extremist beliefs. How many prisoners take part? In theory, every prisoner convicted of a terrorism-related crime is eligible to attend HII sessions, or similar schemes. Some refuse to co-operate and others may not need specialist intervention because they have found their own way to change for the better. It is not clear whether the prison service has sufficient resources in place for all the prisoners who may want to take part. Prof Andrew Silke, another expert in the field, said last year there were waiting lists and some offenders never get seen before their release date. How successful are these programmes? We don't know. Mr Dean told the BBC that HII had seen successes. However, there were also hard cases because of the psychological hold that other extremists, or an ideology, had over the life of an inmate. The HII programme has not been independently evaluated. One reason is it would be unethical to carry out a scientific trial in which some offenders are released without receiving therapy, just to see if they were most likely to reoffend. In 2015, the then Justice Secretary Michael Gove asked Ian Acheson, a former prison governor, to review how extremism was being handled. Mr Acheson concluded that the system was full of flaws. How often do convicts pose a danger after release? This is the second time that a convicted terrorism offender has come out of jail and carried out an attack, leading to their death at the hands of armed police. Usman Khan was shot dead by police after he killed two people and injured three others in December's attack at Fishmonger's Hall, London Bridge. The police have successfully caught other suspects who continue to plot after their release - including a cell in Birmingham who were uncovered planning a marauding knife attack in the city . What do other countries do? Some nations separate Islamist extremist prisoners in jails, to prevent radicalisation. The Acheson review found that in the Netherlands, Spain and France the separation of extremist offenders had worked well. It had improved prison safety and order. That, in turn, had helped the authorities to better target counter-radicalisation schemes at those who would most benefit. The UK only recently began operating so-called "separation units" for the highest risk detainees. However, there have been reports of disagreement within the prison service over whether they are being properly used. Saudi Arabia claims to have had the most success, targeting 3,300 inmates since 2005. The authorities there claim an 80% success rate - with the remaining 20% returning to violence. The offenders go through a number of stages:Indonesia bombing: Worshippers wounded in Makassar church attack 28 March No group has said it carried out the attack A suspected suicide bomb attack outside a Catholic church in the Indonesian city of Makassar has left at least 14 people wounded, police say. Police said an explosion erupted as two attackers tried to enter the church on Palm Sunday ahead of Easter. A destroyed motorbike and body parts were found at the scene and police said the two attackers had died. Militant Islamists have attacked churches in the past but no group has yet said it was behind the bombing. Indonesia's President Joko Widodo condemned the attack as "act of terror" and said he had ordered the chief of police to investigate those responsible. "I call on everyone to fight against terror and radicalism, which go against religious values," the president said. Religious Affairs Minister Yaqut Cholil Qoumas urged police to increase security measures at places of worship. During a Palm Sunday mass at the Vatican, Pope Francis offered a prayer for the victims of the attack. What do we know about the attack? The explosion happened at about 10:30 local time (03:30 GMT) at the end of a service for Palm Sunday, the first day of Holy Week before Easter. "There were two people riding on a motorbike when the explosion happened at the main gate of the church - the perpetrators were trying to enter the compound," National Police spokesman Argo Yuwono said. Later, the country's chief security minister, Mahfud MD, described the attack as "a suicide bombing" committed by two people, both of whom had died. Body parts were found at the scene of the bomb attack A priest at the church, Father Wilhemus Tulak, told Metro TV that security guards had tackled one suspected bomber. The attacker, he said, arrived by motorbike and tried to get into the church. Police said at least 14 people were injured, including the church officials who stopped the attackers from entering the cathedral. The blast happened by the church's side entrance. Footage from security cameras showed fire, smoke and debris being blown into the middle of the road. Makassar Mayor Danny Pomanto said that if the explosion had happened at the main entrance, it could have led to far more casualties. "There were several injured people on the street. I helped one woman who was wounded and covered in blood," one witness named only as Yosi told the AFP news agency. "Her grandchild was also injured. There were body parts everywhere." Gomar Gultom, head of the Indonesian Council of Churches, said the attack on people celebrating Palm Sunday was "cruel". He urged people to stay calm and trust the authorities. The attack happened on Palm Sunday, the first day of the Easter holy week Churches have been targeted in the past by extremists in Indonesia, the world's biggest Muslim-majority nation. In 2018, dozens of people were killed in bomb attacks on churches and a police headquarters in the port city of Surabaya. Police blamed an Islamic State-inspired network, the Jamaah Ansharut Daulah (JAD) group, for the attacks. Indonesia's worst ever terror attack was in Bali in 2002 , when 202 people - mostly foreigners - were killed in an attack on a tourist nightlife district. That attack was carried out by the Jemaah Islamiah (JI) militant network and prompted a sustained crackdown on militants. Garil Arnandha, whose father died in the Bali bombings in 2002, met Ali Imron who is serving a life sentence for the attackWhy do dogs attack their owners? By Rebecca Seales 20 December 2017 Dog-mauling victim Bethany Stephens was found dead in Virginia In Virginia, US, a young woman has died in tragic circumstances after being mauled by her own dogs. Police said Bethany Stephens, 22, was attacked by her two pit bulls while out for a walk - despite having raised them since they were puppies. Locals were so shocked by the case that the sheriff had to release disturbing details of her death to convince them the dogs were responsible. What would make a dog turn on its owner so dramatically? Experts say it's still unclear. But generally speaking, there are several factors that make dogs lash out. Here are some to be aware of. They don't like stress... or Christmas Sean Wensley, Senior Veterinary Surgeon at the People's Dispensary for Sick Animals (PDSA), says dogs can be aggressive when they feel threatened. "The motivation for lots of dog bites is fear," he says. "Others are territorial - if they're guarding something that they highly value, or defending their favourite resting place, their bed... Or if they've learned to defend, say, a dog bowl - that can result in aggression." Dog behaviourist and trainer Carolyn Menteith notes that many dog bites occur during the holiday season, and often it's not their owner they snap with. "Christmas can make it worse as people ask people to just stay with their dog while they pop to the shops," she says. A houseful of guests descend, excited children are around all day, and walks may fall by the wayside, leaving the dog bored and confused. Christmas can be a confusing time for our canine companions (picture for representation) "We're a very verbal species, so when we're not feeling comfortable, we say something," Ms Menteith says. "Our dogs only have body language cues to do that with." It's easy to miss what they're trying to tell us, especially with a long list of undone Christmas chores. Look for signs of pain Regardless of the time of year, owners with more than one dog should check how they behave to each other. "If there's competitive behaviour between them, that can lead to aggression between the dogs that can potentially be directed at an owner," Dr Wensley says. A generally pleasant dog is more likely to attack if it's in pain - for example if it's encouraged to move out of a doorway, and that tweaks a painful joint. Dogs can be aggressive because they're scared - and may even go and hide after biting people (file picture shows a dog in training). Liver disease - which affects the brain - and brain tumours can also cause animals to behave unpredictably. Mind the children NHS figures for 2014-15 showed that 7,227 people needed medical attention after being "bitten or struck" by a dog, with young children the most commonly affected. Some 1,159 under the age of nine were admitted to hospital. Research published in the British Medical Journal (BMJ) found that 76% of dog bites to children were to the lips, nose or cheeks , because of their height. Bites to the neck are especially dangerous as a child can bleed to death if their carotid artery is severed. Dr Wensley says children are potentially alarming for inexperienced dogs. "A small human who behaves slightly unusually, who maybe squeals and tries to cuddle them, pick them up, wave their hands... can make them quite fearful," he says. Before biting, dogs will usually show several signs of anxiety. They may lick their lips, adopt a low posture, put their ears back, and potentially have their tail under their legs. Children may be unable to read those signals - and many even think a dog baring its teeth is smiling. Katy Hastings reports Ms Menteith says that when a dog does attack, the owner will often say it bit with no warning. But in its own way, the dog has been trying to say something for months. "We take dogs into our lives, and then we don't listen to them as dogs," she says. Training is a good investment When thinking about whether it's safe to leave your dog with children, or adult strangers, consider its past experiences. Is it used to small people? Can you really trust it to behave without you? "A problem we see is when young puppies aren't exposed to everyday sights and sounds," Dr Wensley says. "Perhaps they've been reared on a puppy farm in the middle of nowhere, or in a very rural location, and then someone buys them off the internet, meets them at a motorway services, and they're taken to an urban family environment and expected to understand the world they find themselves in. "They can be extremely anxious and fearful, and that will manifest as aggression." Early training is also key to avoiding future aggression - and it's best to start while they're still puppies.US Capitol: Police officer dies after car rams security barrier 3 April Footage shows the scene of the car crash at the US Capitol building An attack at the US Capitol complex in Washington DC has left one police officer dead and another in hospital with injuries. A car crashed into a security barrier before the driver lunged towards the officers with a knife, police said. The officers opened fire and the suspect was shot dead. Authorities said the attack, which came three months after January's deadly Capitol riots , did not appear to be terrorism-related. "Whether the attack was at law enforcement, or whoever, we have a responsibility to get to the bottom of it and we'll do that," Robert Contee, the acting chief of Washington DC's Metropolitan Police Department, said at a news conference. Acting Capitol Police Chief Yogananda Pittman said it was "with a very, very heavy heart that I announce one of our officers has succumbed to his injuries". In a later statement, she named the officer as  William "Billy" Evans, who had been a member of the Capitol Police for 18 years and was part of the department's first responders unit. "Please keep Officer Evans and his family in your thoughts and prayers," she said. The officer killed in the attack has been named as William "Billy" Evans Two law enforcement sources involved in the investigation told BBC partner CBS News that the suspect in the attack was 25-year-old Noah Green from Indiana. They said that no prior information about him had been found on any police databases. In a post from mid-March on a now-deleted Facebook page, Green wrote that he had recently left his job, "partly due to afflictions, but ultimately, in search of a spiritual journey".   He added he had been suffering the "side effects of drugs I was intaking unknowingly" and wrote extensively of his interest in the black nationalist religious organisation, Nation of Islam. In a statement Facebook said it had designated the incident under its "Dangerous Individuals and Organizations policy", meaning the suspect's Facebook and Instagram accounts were being removed, as well as any content praising him. An increased security presence remains around the Capitol building, where the US Congress sits. As Congress is not currently in session, most politicians were not at the Capitol complex at the time of the attack. What do we know about the attack? Shortly after 13:00 local time (18:00 GMT) the Capitol Police alert system sent an email to lawmakers and their staff ordering them to stay away from exterior windows and doors due to a threat. Anyone outside was instructed to seek cover. At that time, a man driving a blue sedan had rammed the car into two officers standing at the North Barricade, according to police. He exited the vehicle and ran towards the officers - at least one of whom drew a weapon and shot the suspect. The officers were then transported to hospital, one in an ambulance and one in a police cruiser. Footage of the scene showed a helicopter flying overhead and what appeared to be two people on stretchers being moved into ambulances. Onlookers were told to clear the area. Police said the suspect died due to his injuries at 13:30 local time. Chief Contee told reporters the suspect appeared to act alone. The FBI's Washington Field Office said it was providing support to the Capitol Police. A second attack in less than three months Analysis by Samantha Granville, US Capitol Capitol Hill has been tense over the past three months. Since the riot on 6 January, the complex has been like a fortress with barbed wire, metal fencing and heightened security. But just weeks later, we are back here with blocked roads, extra troops, and a solemn feeling. Congress is in recess today and staff I have spoken to are grateful to be home and nervous about returning to work after the Easter holiday. They say, understandably, that it is scary to have your workplace attacked twice in a short space of time. It is concerning for them that even with ramped up security, an event that led to an officer's death still happened. What has the reaction been? US President Joe Biden said he was "heartbroken to learn of the violent attack". He offered his "heartfelt condolences to Officer Evans' family, and everyone grieving his loss", and said that he had ordered flags at the White House to be lowered to half mast. Democratic House speaker Nancy Pelosi said "America's heart has been broken" and called Mr Evans "a martyr for our democracy". Democratic Senate majority leader Chuck Schumer said he was "heartbroken for the officer killed" and indebted to the Capitol police force. Republican Senate minority leader Mitch McConnell wrote that he was "praying" for those attacked.Do Americans feel safer after Soleimani attack? US Vice-President Mike Pence has said that he thinks Americans are "safer today" after the death of Qasem Soleimani. Americans in Washington DC answer whether or not they agree. 9 January 2020 BBC News US & CanadaWhat to do if you're attacked by a swarm of wasps 27 August 2018 Stephen Cockroft, 70, was kept in hospital for observation after being stung by 42 wasps Stephen Cockroft was stung 42 times after accidentally disturbing a wasps' nest in his back garden. Here is what you should do if you are attacked by an angry swarm. "Initially I thought I had brushed my arm against a stinging nettle but suddenly wasps were all around my upper torso and face. "I dropped the machine and was desperately flailing my arms around trying to get them off my face. "Even though I made a run for it they just followed and kept stinging me, they were really aggressive." The wasps attacked the 70-year-old, from Delamere in Cheshire, while he was trimming a hedge. They usually only sting when they feel threatened, said Natalie Bungay, technical officer at the British Pest Control Association (BPCA). Wasps can sting multiple times "The problem is a wasp in distress emits a pheromone that sends nearby colony members into a defensive, stinging frenzy," said Ms Bungay. "That's right - scare a wasp and it might call for backup." Although it may be easier said than done, NHS advice is not to wave your arms around or swat at wasps but remain calm and move away slowly. And in case you had any other creative ideas to give them the slip, wasps will not be fooled by anyone who tries to "play dead" said Debugged , the blog by pest control giant Rentokil. "Do not seek shelter in a body of water, as the wasps will simply wait for you to re-emerge," it also advised. Unlike bees, wasps do not die after one sting. They can, and will, sting you quite a few times, said Ms Bungay. "While being stung by one wasp isn't normally dangerous, 30 or 40 stings could kill you." Mr Cockroft said when the ordeal was over he was "visibly shaking and in pain." He could not get an on-the-day appointment with his GP so went to A&E. One nest may produce 3,000-8,000 wasps in a year If you are stung you should pull out any stings left in the skin and wash the area with soap and water, according to NHS advice. Doctors recommend applying ice or a cold flannel to the site for 10 minutes and elevating the area to reduce swelling. You can also take over-the-counter remedies such as antihistamines and painkillers. When to call your GP or NHS 111 Source: NHS At hospital, Mr Cockroft was given medication and was kept in for observation to check he did not have an allergic reaction. "They counted some 42 stings sites, but there were more with some stings still stuck in my skin," he said. "It was a very painful experience and felt like I had received burns to my face, neck, arms and torso. "After a few hours, the pain eased but it was still very, very uncomfortable. "Days later prickly sensation with a lot of itching." Some people may have a severe allergic reaction to a wasp sting known as anaphylaxis . It is a medical emergency and can be fatal if not treated. When to call 999 Source: NHSScottish countryside care plea as lockdown rules ease 31 March Comments SLE said Easter was a "hugely important" time for farms and estates across Scotland A plea has been made to the public to respect Scotland's countryside over the Easter period. Scottish Land and Estates (SLE) - which represents farms, managers and businesses - urged people to tidy up and take care around animals. It highlighted issues of littering, anti-social behaviour and fly tipping during the coronavirus pandemic. As lockdown restrictions ease from Friday, countryside visitor numbers are expected to rise. SLE chief executive Sarah-Jane Laing said: "With restrictions just beginning to ease, we still expect many people to be spending their free time out walking in the countryside. "Our message on behalf of farmers and land managers is to enjoy our rural areas but remember to do so responsibly and respectfully." Sheep attacks She said it was a "hugely important" time for farms and estates with many lambs and calves arriving. NFU Scotland issued a similar warning, encouraging "responsible dog walking" in the countryside. It followed an "alarmingly high" number of dog attacks on pregnant sheep in the south of Scotland. Ms Laing said it was also vital that visitors tidied up after themselves. She added: "The last year has seen a huge increase in anti-social behaviour and that has come at a significant cost to rural communities and businesses that have had to clean up after inconsiderate visitors. "Getting out in the fresh air is great for all of us, especially for our mental and physical wellbeing. "Rural Scotland will be welcoming to visitors and access takers - we just ask the public to be mindful to take care in the countryside over the Easter period and in the months that lie ahead."Sweden attack: Seven hurt in Vetlanda stabbing attack 4 March The attack is being treated as attempted murder A man has injured seven people, three seriously, in a knife attack in a town in southern Sweden. The 22-year-old assailant struck in the centre of Vetlanda at about 15:00 (14:00 GMT) on Wednesday. Police are treating the case as attempted murder but have not ruled out a terror motive. The suspect was shot in the leg by officers but is in a stable condition in hospital and has been questioned by police. At a news conference, police said the man was arrested with a knife in his hand, and confirmed he is an Afghan citizen. The suspect moved to Sweden in 2018, local media said. According to the local police chief, he was previously known to law enforcement agencies but was only suspected of "petty crimes", AFP news agency reports. Prime Minister Stefan Lofven said the "horrific violence" was a reminder of "how frail our safe existence is". "We face these despicable actions with the combined force of the community," he posted on Facebook. Police say investigations are ongoing into whether there is a terror motive linked with the attack. This is at odds with prosecutors, who earlier said terrorism had been ruled out. Officers raided an apartment in Vetlanda, believed to be the man's home. They took away evidence and spoke to neighbours. Extra police officers have been put on patrol in the area. A bouquet of roses was placed in the main street of Vetlanda following the attack What do we know of the attack? Five different crime scenes, a few hundred metres apart, were identified, local police chief Jonas Lindell said. One eyewitness, florist Asa Karlqvist, told local newspaper Vetlanda-Posten: "We heard a scream from the street. Then we saw a man enter the store, shouting that he had been stabbed. "Blood was pouring from his shoulder, so we got towels and applied pressure on the wound." The suspect was shot and arrested within minutes of the first emergency call. Local resident Olivia Strandberg told SVT she had seen from her window the suspect being taken away. "I had just gotten to my apartment when my best friend wrote me and said, 'Don't go out!'" she said.Iran nuclear attack: Mystery surrounds nuclear sabotage at Natanz By Gordon Corera 12 April Within hours of Iran proudly announcing the launch of its latest centrifuges, a power blackout damaged some of the precious machines at its site in Natanz. Iran has described this as an act of "terrorism" and pointed the finger at Israel. But there is still mystery over the cause. In Israel, some reports have suggested a cyber-attack might have been responsible but Iran has talked of "infiltrators" amid reports of an explosion linked to the power generator. One thing reports seem to agree on is that an "incident" affected the power distribution network at Natanz, leading to a blackout until emergency power systems kicked in. A blackout may not sound that serious, but it can be at an enrichment plant. Centrifuges are slender machines linked up in what are called cascades which enrich uranium gas by spinning it at incredibly high speeds using rotors. The stress on the advanced materials involved is intense and the process is technically immensely challenging. A small problem can send a centrifuge spinning out of control, with parts smashing into each other and damaging a whole cascade. Ensuring the power supply reaching a centrifuge is perfectly balanced is vital. Which means sabotage of that supply can be catastrophic. Banks of centrifuges at the Natanz nuclear plant The question is: what caused it - a cyber-attack or a physical act of sabotage, like a bomb? The speculation of cyber-attack comes because Natanz is Ground Zero for cyber-war - the place where the world's first real cyber-attack took place a decade ago. Most events called cyber-attacks are not really attacks in the physical sense - they are thefts of data. But Stuxnet - the name given to the incident that targeted Iran's nuclear programme over a decade ago - is not just one of the few exceptions but arguably also the first demonstration of what such a cyber-attack looks like. In that case, computer codes caused real-word damage by interfering with the centrifuge controllers to spin them out of control (and even relaying false messages back to those monitoring them so they would not worry until it was too late). The result was what sounded like a slow-motion explosion as centrifuges crashed into each other. It was an incredibly sophisticated and targeted operation, run jointly by the US and Israel and developed over a period of years. But that does not mean that a cyber-attack has to be responsible this time. Iran invested heavily in cyber-defence and offense after Stuxnet making such an attack much harder and doing more to protect its systems, including the power supply. Stuxnet showed the separation between online and physical attacks could be blurry - a cyber incident could cause real-world damage. But it also worked the other way - cyber-attacks sometimes required real-world help. Some of the versions of Stuxnet are believed to have required a person to physically insert a USB into a machine in order to get access to the Iranian system. And a physical act of sabotage might be accompanied by a cyber-intrusion to black out the power or alarm systems. And there is also precedent for some kind of physical sabotage. Iran's nuclear programme: What's been happening at its key nuclear sites? Last summer, a previously unknown group calling itself the Homeland Tigers said it was behind a blast which affected a building above ground at Natanz (most of the sensitive work is underground). Statements were sent to the BBC, as well as others, claiming the group were disaffected Iranians and promising more attacks would come. Many at the time assumed Israel was involved in some way, not least because the country has also been linked to the assassination of Iranian nuclear scientists. In the immediate aftermath of an incident, reports are often conflicting and hazy. There can also deliberate disinformation - sometimes a country like Israel might prefer it to appear that a cyber-incident was involved to protect anyone who infiltrated the site. And Iran itself may either not know, or want to reveal all it knows. The details are likely to become clearer in the coming days, with more reports pointing towards an explosion at the power supply rather than simply a cyber-incident. But whatever the cause, previous incidents of either online or physical sabotage have only led to temporary setbacks for the Iranian nuclear programme. And this time Iran has again insisted it will push forwards with its work at Natanz. Natanz uranium enrichment facility lies 250km (155 miles) south of Iran's capital, TehranManchester Arena Inquiry: Officer accepts police control room failings 30 March Ch Insp Booth was off-duty when the 2017 attack took place A police fixation with getting armed units to the Manchester Arena after it was bombed impacted the wider emergency response, an inquiry has heard. The Manchester Arena Inquiry was told the former police control room manager accepted his staff did not communicate well with responders after the blast. Ch Insp Mike Booth said his belief that staff had enough support to deal with such an attack had been "incorrect". He was not on duty on the night of the 2017 attack. The inquiry has been told that it was the police's job to inform and update other  responders during a major incident, such as the bombing, which killed 22 people and injured hundreds more. 'Key element' Giving evidence, Ch Insp Booth said he "would have hoped" staff in the control room "would have been aware of the responsibilities". "Clearly, with hindsight, some further embedding of that would have been extremely useful," he said. "I maintain that at the time I believed the additional support available to them would have been sufficient. "Clearly, as it's played out in a real-life incident… my original assumption proved to be incorrect." Twenty-two people died in the attack on 22 May 2017 However, he said he did not think the importance of triggering other emergency responders "fell off the radar". He said police first aid skills were "limited compared to those of fire and ambulance service, so certainly they were and remain a key element of responding to a major incident". "We realise we can't do it all ourselves," he added. Pete Weatherby QC, who represents some of the bereaved families, asked him if the police's preoccupation with getting armed officers to the scene of the arena attack came to the detriment of involving other emergency services in the response. "It appears that way, yes," he replied. 'Level best' The inquiry heard that in November 2016, inspectors found there were shortcomings in how Greater Manchester Police (GMP) control room staff would be able to cope in the event of a terrorist attack. Ch Insp Booth said his seniors did not tell him the specific findings of that inspection report and if had been "aware of the lack of knowledge... then obviously I could have reflected on what other activity could have taken place to bolster that knowledge". The hearing was also told that in the year before the bombing, Ch Insp Booth created "action cards" which gave police control room staff simple clear reminders of what they needed to do during a terrorist attack. The idea was that the cards would help take the pressure off the police force duty officer (FDO), who is initially responsible for co-ordinating the emergency response to any major incident. The hearing was told that despite him doing his "level best", nothing was done within Greater Manchester Police to make sure the action cards were used by control room staff. The inquiry continues. Why not follow BBC North West on Facebook , Twitter and Instagram ? You can also send story ideas to northwest.newsonline@bbc.co.ukIn pictures: Kill the Bill Bristol protest turns violent 22 March Police vehicles were set alight as scene turned ugly Police officers have been hurt during a protest in the centre of Bristol that turned violent. Crowds had gathered for the Kill the Bill demonstration in opposition to the Police and Crime Bill . Windows of a police station were smashed, riot vans and police cars were set on fire amid tense scenes in the centre of the city. Bristol Mayor Marvin Rees said: "Smashing buildings in our city centre, vandalising vehicles, attacking our police will do nothing to lessen the likelihood of the Bill going through. "On the contrary, the lawlessness on show will be used as evidence and promote the need for the Bill." The protest centred around New Bridewell police station in the centre of Bristol Several riot vans and police cars were set on fire during the protest that started peacefully Protesters scaled the police station roof and threw fireworks into the crowd Police in riot gear pushed back against the crowd of thousands in Bristol city centre Rioters smashed the windows of the building Crowds had gathered for the Kill the Bill demonstration in opposition to the Police and Crime Bill Riot officers pushed the protesters back away from the police station "You don't campaign for the right to peaceful protest by setting police vans on fire", Bristol North West MP Darren Jones says UK Home Secretary Priti Patel says "Thuggery and disorder by a minority will never be tolerated" .What to do in a terror attack Celebs join new police campaign. This video has been optimised for mobile viewing on the BBC News app. The BBC News app is available from the Apple App Store for iPhone and Google Play Store for Android. 28 September 2017 BBC News UKMothers of Manchester attack couple do Great North Run The mothers of Liam Curry and Chloe Rutherford are taking part in this year's Great North Run. They say that the couple, who died in the Manchester Arena attack, would be "laughing" at them. Money raised will go to the Chloe and Liam Together Forever Trust, the charity set up in memory of their children. 7 September 2018 BBC News Tyne & WearHack of '150,000 cameras' investigated by camera firm 10 March A Tesla site in Shanghai is said to have been among those that had its camera feeds hacked A hack of up to 150,000 security cameras installed in schools, hospitals and businesses is being investigated by the firm that makes them. Hackers claim to have breached Verkada, a security company that provides cameras to companies including Tesla. Bloomberg reported feeds from prisons, psychiatric hospitals, clinics, and Verkada's own offices were hijacked. Verkada told the BBC it was "investigating the scale and scope of this issue". The company added it had notified law enforcement. However, it did not confirm the size and scale of the attack. Reuters has also reported that the transport start-up Virgin Hyperloop was among the list of impacted user accounts disclosed by the hackers. Software provider Cloudflare told the BBC that it had been alerted to a "handful" of cameras that might have been compromised at its offices around the world. A Verkada camera inside a Florida hospital, reportedly seen by Bloomberg, showed what appeared to be eight workers tackling a man and pinning him to a bed. Another video showed officers in a police station in Stoughton, Massachusetts questioning a man in handcuffs. One, inside a Tesla warehouse in Shanghai, showed people working on an assembly line. The BBC has not been able to independently verify these videos. 'Too much fun' The hackers also said they had gained access to the security cameras of Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut, where a gunman killed more than 20 people in 2012. Speaking to Bloomberg, Tille Kottmann claimed credit for hacking into Verkada's systems. The reasons for the hack, Kottmann said, were, "lots of curiosity, fighting for freedom of information and against intellectual property, a huge dose of anti-capitalism, a hint of anarchism - and it's also just too much fun not to do it". The attack was reportedly unsophisticated, involving use of a "super admin" account to gain access to Verkada. Bloomberg said that after they had contacted Verkada, the hackers lost access to the video feeds and archives. A spokesperson for Verkada told the BBC: "We have disabled all internal administrator accounts to prevent any unauthorised access. "Our internal security team and external security firm are investigating the scale and scope of this issue, and we have notified law enforcement." The company has also set up a support line for their customers. Meanwhile Cloudflare told the BBC: "This afternoon we were alerted that the Verkada security camera system that monitors main entry points and main thoroughfares in a handful of Cloudflare offices may have been compromised. "The cameras were located in a handful of offices that have been officially closed for several months." Tesla has yet to comment. The breach comes after further details of a hack on Microsoft Exchange are beginning to emerge. The attack used previously unknown flaws in the email software - and sometimes stolen passwords - to steal data from targets' networks.Surviving a shark attack: Do you really have to punch it? By Rebecca Seales 14 November 2017 A Great White Shark pictured in Gansbaai, South Africa Apparently if you're attacked by a shark, it helps to have read the news. Fortunately for surfer Charlie Fry, when a 2m (6.5ft) long shark launched at him on a beach near Sydney, he remembered a famous survival story . The source - Australian pro surfer Mick Fanning, who punched a shark in the back live on TV during a competition in South Africa. Both men were lucky enough to escape with their lives. But is punching the predator really the best way out of that situation? We got some expert advice on how to survive a shark attack... Worst-case scenario: If the shark decides you're prey Ryan Johnson is a shark researcher and documentary maker who studies great whites. He told the BBC it depends if the animal is checking you out, or has gone in for the kill. "From my experience free-diving with white sharks - if you're in that situation where you are getting attacked, you have to do everything in your power," he said. "Punching him in the face, going for his eyes, try to keep your hands out of his mouth. "If you start touching them around the snout, they can pick up your electro-receptions and they know you're possibly edible." He advises using "something hard - be it a camera, a stick, a rock" - to push the animal away. "In a situation where you don't have that, going for the face and the gills and trying to keep your hands out of its mouth is always the best thing." Surfer Mick Fanning: "I punched the shark in the back" What if it hasn't attacked yet? If there's a shark nearby, surely the best thing is to get away as fast as possible? Actually, no... "The worst thing is to try to run away," Mr Johnson advises. "It's like throwing a stick for a dog. Fleeing often can entice a shark... Standing your ground and trying to make yourself big and going vertical in the water is always the best response to make a shark keep its distance from you." Should you carry knives, or sticks? Conservationist and wildlife author Richard Peirce, who lives between Africa and the UK, has had many sharks approach "closer than I was happy with", and agrees the best deterrent is a shove to the nose from a heavy object - perhaps a camera, or a shark "billy" - basically a sharpened stick about two or three feet long. What about a knife? "Gosh, no! Hopeless, hopeless," he says. "All you're going to do is excite the animal. You've got a little knife four, six, eight inches long, and you've got a two or three or four metre white shark or a three or four metre tiger shark... There's no chance whatsoever of fighting the shark. And if you do start it bleeding, you could well attract other animals in..." Doesn't really bear thinking about... But there's safety in numbers, right? Absolutely. If you're diving in shark-inhabited waters, make sure you're in a pair. That way if a shark shows up, you can keep the animal in sight. "The shark is an apex predator," Mr Peirce notes. "It's an ambush predator. If they know that you're watching, they will circle you - and that's happened to me loads of times - but what you do, basically, is try to slowly swim back together." So once again, despite every instinct - don't panic, don't splash. Tiger sharks are curious animals, and can be found in warm, shallow waters "A great white doesn't want a mouthful of wetsuit and sinew - we're not on the menu, it's just curiosity. Sharks exhibit body language, just like a dog. You know when that dog's starting to growl, bare its teeth - and it's exactly the same with a shark. When that happens, you've got to be calm." And the worst time and place to swim? "Don't swim at dawn or dusk," Mr Peirce advises. "Those are the times that sharks can make mistakes. And those are also prime hunting times. "And you wouldn't swim in an estuary situation. Bull sharks live in fresh water and sea water. You wouldn't swim anywhere near a fishing boat, because they could be discarding guts and bits of old fish - all of which will bring in sharks and put them in feeding mode." A British man has told 5 live Breakfast how he swam over four miles to safety after being "followed" by a tiger shark So how risky is it, really? There are over 400 species of shark, and around a dozen are considered highly dangerous to humans - chiefly the great white, tiger shark and bull shark. The chances of dying in a shark attack are definitely extremely slim. The Florida Museum of Natural History puts the odds of a fatal attack at about 1 in 3,748,067 . But of course, the risk depends on your habits - surfers are obviously more likely to run into a fin than those who rarely set foot in the sea, as Surfer.com estimated . It also depends where you are. The coasts of South Africa, Brazil, Hawaii, and Fiji are all shark territory, while in the US Florida and California are most affected. There have been 18 shark attacks - including one fatal incident - in Australia this year, according to the Australian Shark Attack File , But overall, sharks are at much greater risk from humans than we are from them. Some estimates suggest an astonishing 100 million die due to human activity every year - or around 11,000 an hour.Arrest after police dog attacked with machete in Handsworth 14 November 2020 West Midlands Police said police dog Stark was doing well after the attack A police dog was attacked with a machete during investigations into reports of a break-in at allotments. Police dog Stark, was sent with PC Paul Hopley to the scene at Larch Avenue in Handsworth, Birmingham at 04:00 GMT, said West Midlands Police. The dog was struck on the head with the weapon, but managed to bite his attacker on the leg, the force said. He was then arrested on suspicion of possession of an offensive weapon and assaulting a police dog. The 16-year-old boy was taken to hospital so his injuries could be checked and will be taken into police custody later, the force said. In a tweet, the West Midlands Police dogs account said the dog had to undergo emergency surgery, but the force has said he "is going to be OK". The force said it believed two other people managed to get away from the scene, and appealed for anyone with information to come forward. A fantastic job by PD Stark & PC Hopley overnight. PD Stark detaining an aggressive male, who attacked him multiple times with a machete. A HUGE thanks to @PDSA_HQ for their emergency surgery for PD Stark after suffering multiple wounds from the machete #topdog  #detained 🐾💪 pic.twitter.com/efnBM1jkk5 — WMP Dog Section (@WMPDogs) November 14, 2020 View original tweet on Twitter Follow BBC West Midlands on Facebook , Twitter and Instagram . Send your story ideas to: newsonline.westmidlands@bbc.co.ukAdvice and tips on what to do following the WhatsApp cyber attack and protect your device Wake Up To Money's Sean Farrington joins Nicky Campbell for a Your Call special in the wake of the WhatsApp hack on how you can protect your device from cyber attack. 14 May 2019 BBC News BusinessJeremy Corbyn: 'We don't do personal attacks' Jeremy Corbyn, the man leading the race to become the next leader of the Labour Party, has responded to criticism of his campaign. Leadership rival Yvette Cooper said Mr Corbyn's economic policies were 'not credible' and compared support for him to support for the SNP and UKIP. Meanwhile, former prime minister Tony Blair said the party risked "annihilation" if Mr Corbyn won the leadership contest. Speaking during a visit to supporters in Aberdeen, Mr Corbyn said he just wanted to "talk about the issues". 13 August 2015 BBC News UK PoliticsDouma 'attack': How do you test for chemical weapons? By Joel Gunter 18 April 2018 Experts confirmed that the nerve agent Sarin was used in an attack in the Ghouta in 2013 A week after they gathered in Syria, inspectors from the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons are finally gaining access to the site of an alleged chemical attack in the town of Douma. Rescue workers and opposition activists say government aircraft dropped barrel bombs filled with toxic chemicals on Douma on 7 April, killing more than 40 people and injuring hundreds more. Medics reported seeing patients with symptoms including foaming at the mouth, blue skin and lips, corneal burns and convulsions, which they said indicated exposure to chlorine and possibly a nerve agent. The government and its ally, Russia, said the incident was staged, but requested that an OPCW Fact-Finding Mission investigate the allegations. Unverified video shows children being treated after alleged gas attack For the inspectors, getting into Douma is the first hurdle. When they arrive they will face many more. How do you gather evidence of a chemical weapon attack, almost a fortnight after it happened, in an environment controlled by forces accused of perpetrating the alleged attack? The inspectors will be looking for three types of evidence: environmental, biomedical and documentary, said Hamish de Bretton Gordon, a British chemical weapons expert who has investigated previous attacks in Syria. Environmental evidence could include debris from munitions, as well as soil samples and chips of concrete from buildings. Biomedical evidence includes blood, hair and urine from victims. Documentary evidence - witness testimony, footage, and social media posts. "If they find any weapon debris they will be swabbing it for samples," Mr de Bretton-Gordon said. "They will be interviewing as many people as they can, and attempting to verify the veracity of those witnesses. And they will be trying to find the injured and the dead." That was key, he said - the injured and the dead. Biomedical samples provide the most reliable evidence of the use of chemical agents. "Urine can be good for identifying the presence of chlorine," he said. "And blood samples will show the presence of a nerve agent, as will hair." CBS News found a yellow gas canister on the roof of a building allegedly targeted in Douma The nerve agent Sarin was used in an attack that killed hundreds of people in the Ghouta region outside Damascus in August 2013. In that case, OPCW experts gained access to the affected areas after two days as part of a UN mission. They collected a significant amount of biomedical evidence from survivors, as well as environmental samples. Angela Kane, a former UN high representative for disarmament affairs, led the mission. "What we found in Ghouta was a very complex composite of Sarin," Ms Kane said. "In its very pure form, Sarin evaporates very quickly, making it hard to detect. But in 2013 the Sarin was cut with other chemicals which meant that it stayed a lot longer on the ground." Finding proof of the allegations made by the residents of Douma may be more difficult. On Tuesday, the US state department warned that the delays in getting the OPCW inspectors into the town would "further degrade" any evidence on the ground. Russian military personnel are believed to have visited the attack site last week as rebel fighters were being evacuated. The US ambassador to the OPCW said he feared they might have "tampered with it with the intent of thwarting the efforts of the OPCW Fact-Finding Mission". Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov denied any interference. Seth Doane, CBS, visits the scene of the 'chemical attack' in Douma In theory, if you wanted to clean up a chemical attack site, the first thing to do would be to locate and remove any debris from the munitions, Mr de Bretton-Gordon said. Then you would scrub down and clean anything contaminated by the chemical agents. Counter-intuitively, a chlorine-based solution is often used. You might also attempt to silence or remove witnesses from the location. A Guardian newspaper report on Wednesday suggested that medics in Douma had been threatened and had their WhatsApp conversations inspected. Another source of evidence is the dead. Under the Chemical Weapons Convention, OPCW inspectors should have access to any piece of evidence they want, including corpses. But first the bodies have to be found. "If the inspectors find no bodies, that tells you something," Mr de Bretton-Gordon said. "If those bodies have disappeared, that would be a very strong indication that something was very wrong." In Douma, investigators will need to perform all of this work in an environment controlled by Syrian government and Russian forces. Filming everything as the work was carried out was key, said Ms Kane, as well as tightly securing any evidence. "Those samples have to remain in your custody at all times," she said. "You never let them leave your sight, wherever you are, onto the plane, all the way to the the laboratory."Do attack ads crush the opposition? By Finlo Rohrer 6 October 2010 The Demon Sheep ad rapidly gained notoriety It's less than a month until the US mid-term elections and that means adverts that knock the opposition are coming thick and fast. But do the "attack ads" work and what makes a good one? Attack ads are not a uniquely American institution but many of the most powerful examples have come from the US. Lyndon Johnson's campaign advert Daisy , despite only being shown once, played a part in his landslide victory over Barry Goldwater in 1964. Its ominous invocation of the dangers of nuclear war generated controversy. But nearly five decades on many political scientists believe that negative advertising works. It can complement positive advertising at different stages of a campaign. "Early in the campaign you will see a lot of positive advertising as a candidate introduces himself," says Prof Stephen Ansolabehere, of Harvard University, and co-author of Going Negative: How Political Advertising Alienates and Polarizes the American Electorate. "What's then left is to try and discredit the other guy. Later in the campaign you see them trying to call attention to the failings. "It could be issues, it could be scandals." The Daisy ad from 1964 didn't even mention Johnson's opponent. It was left to the viewer to infer that the meaning was that Goldwater's policies could lead to cataclysm. Republican California Senate candidate Carly Fiorina's most notable attack on incumbent Democrat Barbara Boxer was a seven minute web movie The crop of 2010 are usually quicker to name the target. Those attack ads that are intended for television are often only 30 seconds long. They can target the private life or moral rectitude of the opponent. Louisiana congressman Charlie Melancon decided to take this tack in an advert against incumbent Senator David Vitter . In July 2007, Mr Vitter's phone number cropped up in phone records linked to a Washington DC brothel. Mr Vitter apologised for a "very serious sin" but would give no further details. Mr Melancon's advert - in the style of a true-crime TV show - returns to these and subsequent allegations. But this can be a dangerous type of attack, even in today's brutal political arena. "I can imagine there are consultants who say 'your opponent is an adulterer or your opponent is a witch we have to hammer that home'," says Prof Michael Franz, of Bowdoin College, co-author of Campaign Advertising and American Democracy. "That is where the political scientists would say that is dangerous waters. Voters sometimes don't like that style of attack and they could punish the sponsor of it." And attacks on the views of the opponent also have the possibility to backfire. One of the most controversial ads of the run-up to the mid-terms so far is Florida Democrat congressman Alan Grayson's attack on his Republican opponent Dan Webster . Alan Grayson suggests in this video his opponent Dan Webster's religious views could be compared to the Taliban A string of headlines about Mr Webster's stance on women, and audio clips of him talking, culminates in the legend "Taliban Dan Webster" written in vaguely Arabic looking script. It drew fire with critics saying it had taken Mr Webster's comments out of context and edited them misleadingly. A poll highlighted in the New York Times suggests Mr Grayson lost much support in just one week after the release of the ad. This year's US primaries saw some fruity adverts, with the Demon Sheep ad already notorious in the field of attack ads. Carly Fiorina attacked her Republican rival's fiscal credentials. But who would have thought that such mainstream subject matter could result in an internet video featuring a man dressed as a sheep sporting demon eyes? It generated criticism but also much buzz. Having dealt with her Republican rival, Ms Fiorina must now deal with incumbent Democrat Senator Barbara Boxer. Her strategy involves both short ads like her criticism of Ms Boxer for insisting on being addressed as "senator" and longer internet ads like the extraordinary Hot Air: The Movie, which depicts Ms Boxer as a giant hot air balloon of egotism. Ms Boxer's own most recent attack ad focuses on Ms Fiorina's record as an executive with Hewlett-Packard, outsourcing jobs to China. It's a battle royale in much the same way as the fight between billionaire Meg Whitman and veteran Jerry Brown for the office of governor. Ms Whitman has used the words of Democrat President Bill Clinton to damn Mr Brown. And Mr Brown  has been able to respond with an attack on Ms Whitman's record as an Ebay executive . Third party adverts can be even more vicious. "In this election, there will be more third party advertising. Third party adverts tend to be more negative," says Prof Ansolabehere. This advert from the National Republican Senate Committee is an example, attacking Illinois Democrat Senate candidate Alexi Giannoulias for having links to organised crime through his brother. The best are short and pithy, says Prof Ansolabehere, with Connecticut Republican Senate candidate Linda McMahon's attack on her Democrat opponent being a good example. "That is a pretty good character attack, straightforward, grainy black and white images. "A 30 second advert is four or five sentences. It is a little tiny narrative about the candidate." Democrat rival Richard Blumenthal's own ads again take advantage of his opponent's business background . The Daisy advert is still inspiring imitators nearly five decades later While there are many who believe negative ads can work, particularly to focus attention on a particular policy issue, it's not easy to quantify precisely how well they work. This applies even for those adverts widely perceived to have been successful. One such example was the Willie Horton ad from 1988, in which it was suggested that Democrat presidential candidate Michael Dukakis had supported a policy which allowed a "weekend pass " for a murderer who went on to commit a rape. "There is a debate among historians about the Willie Horton ad," says Prof Franz. "Some people say that was a successful attack ad… but it may have worked against [President George HW] Bush." And while efforts are made to research what topics will hurt the opponent, it's not an exact science. "There is some testing of these messages through focus groups. I don't think there is prevailing wisdom about the attacks that work," says Prof Franz Fred Davis, chief executive of the Republican-oriented media firm, Strategic Perception, oversaw both the Hot Air and Demon Sheep web films and believes a successful attack ad is now simply one that gets people talking. "It doesn't just run and go in one ear and out the other - it jolts them and makes them think. You want everybody the next day talking about your ad." The rise of YouTube means a successful media strategy is now a mix of 30-second television adverts and longer clips aimed at viral web success. But the spirit of the attack remains the same.NI assembly to be recalled over loyalist violence 6 April The Northern Ireland Assembly is to be recalled early from its Easter break on Thursday to discuss the violence in some loyalist areas. A petition tabled by the Alliance Party to bring MLAs back to the chamber has secured the 30 signatures required. Forty-one police officers have been injured as a result of the violence in parts of greater Belfast and Londonderry, with ten arrests made to date. Detectives are also investigating parades in Portadown and Markethill on Monday. Politicians are united in calling for the violence to end, but are divided over why it has erupted. Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) Arlene Foster said she had spoken to the chairman of the Police Federation to offer her support to rank-and-file officers First Minister Arlene Foster urged young people not to get a criminal record by getting involved in violence. "I say to young people who are angry, do not get yourself a criminal record. It will blight your life for the rest of your life, you won't be able to go on holiday, so please, please desist from this violence. "There is a better way, and the way is through politics," Mrs Foster said. Asked about claims that political unionist rhetoric has inflamed tensions, Mrs Foster said it was as if "young people do not have the ability to think for themselves". "Seriously, do we not think that people have a brain to think for themselves? They do of course." She added: "You're hurting your own neighbourhoods, you're hurting your own communities and therefore you need to step back." But Mrs Foster also said confidence had gone in the senior management of the Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) over the decision by prosecutors not to charge anyone over the Bobby Storey funeral .  She said she had not been in contact with Chief Constable Simon Byrne. Mrs Foster said she had spoken to the chairman of the Police Federation for Northern Ireland to offer her support to rank-and-file officers. "The chief constable needs to resign, and needs to resign quickly. Confidence is gone in his leadership, and confidence is gone in his senior management team." Mrs Foster also said she has asked the executive to urgently look at the reopening of youth centres to divert young people away from "malign influences". Sinn Féin Sinn Fein's Gerry Kelly said the political rhetoric from the DUP predates the Bobby Storey funeral decision North Belfast MLA Gerry Kelly said the political rhetoric from the DUP predates the Bobby Storey funeral decision. "Political figures in unionism are winding young people up, and destroying their lives," Mr Kelly said. "Let me condemn the attacks on the police. Unionism, the wrong leadership, are inflaming the situation instead of calming it down." Alliance Naomi Long said she was "appalled at the violence that has been demonstrated towards police officers" Justice Minister Naomi Long said you cannot "divorce" recent criticism of the police and the attacks on officers which has followed.She said some remarks around policing has been "reckless" and the PSNI has been made a "lightning conductor for people's anger". Ms Long said she was "appalled at the violence that has been demonstrated towards police officers". "They should be supported by all of us for doing their job, not attacked because of it. "The scenes we have witnessed over the past few nights have resulted in nothing but property destroyed and lives endangered. Once again we see adults drawing children and young people into violence and disorder." The assembly will sit on Thursday at 11:00 BST, following a successful recall petition tabled by the Alliance Party. SDLP Policing Board member Dolores Kelly said the assembly recall would give political leaders the opportunity to condemn the violence On a visit to the Nelson Drive area of Londonderry, party leader Colum Eastwood said people are "living in fear" because of the actions of a minority. "The violence across the city and across the north needs to stop. If people have issues they can talk about them. People living in their own communities are being tortured." Upper Bann MLA and Policing Board member Dolores Kelly said the assembly recall would give political leaders the opportunity to condemn the violence and confirm their support for law and order. "Words have consequences," she said. "The violence must stop and people need to realise that violence will not pay." Ulster Unionist Party (UUP) UUP MLA Doug Beattie said there needed to be "strong, sensible leadership" from the PSNI chief constable Upper Bann MLA Doug Beattie said there needed to be "strong, sensible leadership" from the chief constable. "We don't believe that we've got that," he said. "We absolutely support our police service and they have been caught in the crossfire again of political failure. "I hold my own hand up when I say that political failure has led us to where we are now. We are in extremely difficult times." Traditional Unionist Voice (TUV) TUV leader Jim Allister said there is a perception among some in loyalist communities that violence pays Leader Jim Allister said there is a perception among some in loyalist communities, difficult to counter, that violence pays. "They saw it work so well for those who govern," he said. "Violence is not justified, was never justified, but the most difficult message I have to sell to young people in the loyalist community is to deal with the reality that violence paid for Sinn Féin/IRA. It worked." Progressive Unionist Party (PUP) PUP leader Billy Hutchinson said he has seen "no evidence" that the violence is organised Leader Billy Hutchinson said he has seen "no evidence" that the violence is organised. He said he did not take to the streets to discourage those involved as "once a riot starts, you've no chance in controlling it"."There is no point in trying to go onto the streets, people won't listen to you."Mr Hutchinson said: "I do not want this young generation thinking they should go out there and commit violence to try to correct the mistakes that was made by other generations."We need to find political solutions for political problems." Northern Ireland Affairs Committee chair Conservative MP Simon Hoare urged those involved in the violence to "stop it now" Conservative MP Simon Hoare urged those involved in the violence to "stop it now".He said it was "the behaviour of thuggish anarchists"."This is a very dangerous path backwards, and we all know a small fire can very easily get out of control," he told BBC Radio Foyle."People may be angry, they are angry, of course we know this, people are frustrated. "We have had the Covid restrictions, there are economic concerns, there are job concerns, there are investment concerns, concerns about the Northern Ireland Protocol, concerns about policing etc, but this is not the way to do it."What should you do in an attack? By Camila Ruz 19 November 2015 Attacks of the magnitude of those that took place in Paris, killing 130 people and injuring more than 400, are extremely rare. The authorities do prepare for these emergencies but what advice is there for ordinary people? Be prepared Many survivors of the Paris attacks have said that they mistook the first gunshots for fireworks . This is typical, says John Leach, survival psychologist and military survival instructor. People who are not expecting gunshots will assume that they are something else because it does not fit in with their expectations.  "We respond to the model in our head and we don't respond directly to the environment and that is what makes us vulnerable," he says. Fans at the Eagles of Death Metal gig did not expect to hear gunfire The time it can take to understand what is happening can be lethal. But if someone has already thought through a few worst-case scenarios then this process will be quicker. "All you need to ask is - if anything goes wrong, what is my first response going to be?" explains Leach. It's easy to sit in a restaurant or cinema without paying any attention to the emergency exits. But knowing where they are can save lives.  In the attack on the Bataclan concert hall on Friday, a security guard led a group of people to safety through the fire exit on the left of the stage. React quickly The vast majority of people will be too confused to do anything during an attack.  Leach has looked at life-threatening situations around the world and has found that only 15% of people will respond in a way that helps them survive. Up to 75% will just be too bewildered by what is happening around them to react at all.  The other 10% will react in ways that reduce their chances of survival and get in the way of other people, he says. Acting decisively might make survival more likely. But it's also human nature to wait for other people to act first. In a classic experiment , psychologists put people in a room and filled it with smoke to see how they would react. People who were on their own were more likely to take action than those who were with other people. Make yourself a smaller target "Where there's cover from sight, there's cover from fire," advises Ian Reed, a former British soldier, military instructor and chief executive of the Formative Group security firm. The first thing is to try to get out of the way and make yourself a smaller target. This can involve simply dropping to the ground but ideally means getting behind some sort of cover. Hard cover such as a concrete wall is the best option. "Obviously, Hollywood has portrayed cars as being bulletproof but that's not necessarily the case," says Reed. Despite this, even a car is better than nothing at all. When an attack happens in a tightly packed space, a single bullet can end up injuring several people. Keeping out of sight reduces the risk that you can be targeted deliberately and also the chances of being hit by someone simply spraying the room with fire. Philonenko Gregoire says his prosthetic leg "fooled" the gunman who was checking people on the ground for movement Many survivors in Paris did this instinctively - turning tables over to use as makeshift shelters or hiding behind speakers in the concert hall. But the lack of cover on the main floor of the Bataclan meant not everyone there was able to hide. An Irish couple survived by playing dead. Another survivor, Theresa Cede, told the BBC: "One guy was badly hurt, and moaning, so we tried to say: 'Shh, be quiet, stay alive and don't move,' because every time there was movement somewhere, there were more gunshots." "They are looking for movement - it will catch their eye," explains Reed. This is especially true if it's dark. Some people in the Bataclan did run for the exit when the attackers paused to reload. This can be risky, but in some scenarios running away is a good idea. The UK government's advice, in its document on "dynamic lockdowns" , is to run if there is a safe route out. But if there is no safe way to do this it advises hiding. The advice is summarised as "run, hide, tell". According to eyewitnesses on Friday, several people chose to stay hidden in offices and toilets until help arrived. Lassana Bathily: "I switched off the fridge... and told customers to stay calm" In January, 24-year-old Lassana Bathily was hailed a hero after hiding Jewish shoppers in a basement cold store during an attack by an Islamist gunman. He switched off the fridge and the lights and ran to get help. All of those he hid survived. Fighting back Rushing a gunman has worked in some situations. In August, a train attack was foiled in France after passengers overpowered the lone gunman. But of the four passengers involved in subduing him, one was in the Air Force and another in the National Guard. The men only made the attempt after the shooter's weapon jammed. Three American men confronted a gunman on a train in France Reed says that it's not a good idea to take on an assailant without training. "It's just risking your life," he adds. It's important to remember that many attackers will be working in teams. Some will be wearing body armour and others could be carrying explosives. Adel Termos is thought to have saved dozens of lives in Beirut last week after he tackled a bomber from behind. But the suicide vest exploded and both Termos and the bomber died in the blast. Despite the dangers, some people argue that it's important to be ready to fight if necessary. Members of the Islamic State group are not motivated by taking hostages, says James Alvarez, psychologist and hostage negotiator. "There's nobody to negotiate with. Your value lies in you being dead. If I know that I'm going to be shot, I'd like to think that I'm not going to go down quietly." One man helped a pregnant woman who hung from a window After the escape Once someone has managed to escape the situation it's important for them to remain vigilant. "Get as far away as possible, behind as much hard cover as possible and go to the nearest authority figures for help," says Reed. It can be dangerous to join big groups nearby and to take public transport. "Always assume that there's going to be a secondary device or action," adds Reed. The key is to take advice from police officers or other officials, as they may have better knowledge of the situation. Help each other The chances of being caught up in a major attack are still low . But if it does happen, co-operating with others can increase people's chance of survival, says Chris Cocking, social psychologist and expert in crowd behaviour. After the 7/7 London attacks, Cocking helped interview dozens of people involved and concluded that the quickest and most efficient way for a group to evacuate is for people to work together. This is the only way to avoid situations such as a crowd getting jammed at a fire escape. Cocking says that most people are likely to try to help each other even in extreme situations. "There's an assumption that it's everybody for themselves but that just doesn't happen," he says. Subscribe to the BBC News Magazine's email newsletter to get articles sent to your inbox.How do you stop sharks attacking? 19 April 2017 Surfer Mick Fanning: "I punched the shark in the back" How do you stop a great white shark, a creature that can grow up to six metres in length and weigh more than a tonne? It is a question that has dogged authorities in those countries where people suffer attacks by sharks (great white and others). Attacks continue to happen, and as long as they do, so will the calls for preventative measures. In the latest case, Laeticia Brouwer, 17, was fatally attacked by a shark on Monday while surfing off Western Australia. In response, Australia's Federal Environment Minister Josh Frydenberg has said he would consider new proposals, including culling, adding that the government "would welcome any proposal to put human life first". On Thursday, the Senate environmental committee will hold a hearing - already planned before Laeticia Brouwer's death - on shark mitigation strategies. But what are the possible solutions? Do they make sense? And are shark attacks a big enough problem to warrant such measures? The possible solutions 1) Shark shields A shark shield is a device that lets out an electromagnetic pulse to deter sharks, and the Western Australia (WA) government has proposed offering a subsidy of A$200 (£117; $150) to anyone wanting to buy one (this is roughly equivalent to a third of the cost of the device). On the other hand, the WA opposition says shields would remain prohibitively expensive to most people, even with a discount. The University of Western Australia's Oceans Institute has been tasked with testing different shark deterrents by Australia's federal government. Speaking to media on Wednesday, Prof Shaun Collin, the institute's director, said a shark shield proved to be an effective deterrent in 400 tests of an "investigative" shark attack - in which the shark approaches prey to assess what it is. However, he said the shields proved ineffective in "ambush" attacks, in which the shark swims at speed from deep on seeing a silhouette - possibly of a surfer. Can science stop sharks attacking humans? 2) Shark nets The shark net debate A shark net is stretched through the water to try and separate swimmers and surfers from what may try and approach them. They are not new at all, having been used across Australia for decades. The New South Wales government ran a trial with a net from 2015-16 and, in one aspect, it proved successful - it caught 133 sharks in that time. The down side? A government report showed 615 other marine animals were caught, including 90 threatened or protected species. Close to half of them died after being caught in the netting. The nets have been called cruel by campaigners, and have been cut by activists. Why the jump in NSW shark attacks? 3) Drum lines and culling This method, too, has been attacked as cruel - it is a baited hook suspended underwater and tied to a float on the surface of the water. It is also anchored to the sea bed, meaning the shark has nowhere to go once it has taken the bait. Larger sharks are often shot; smaller ones released. It was a policy pushed in Western Australia under the state's previous government and has been used in other Australian states. There was some controversy that drum lines were not put in place on the beach where Laeticia Brouwer died. But many also question their effectiveness - including the government now in place in WA. On Tuesday, the state's Fisheries Minister Dave Kelly told ABC : "We made it clear in opposition that we don't see the merit in automatically deploying drum lines, because they don't actually make our beaches any safer. "We want to focus on individual shark deterrence, which can actually provide genuine protection for the people who are most at risk." The possibility of an active cull - not just killing sharks caught in drum lines - was one raised by Federal Environment Minister Josh Frydenberg on Wednesday. And while Australia's government is committed to a programme of conserving shark populations, and proposals of culls are generally met with protests, there is some support for a targeted cull. An editorial in the centre-right The Australian newspaper by its surf writer, written after Laeticia Brouwer's death, said "our insane shark conservation policies have cost another life", adding that there was blood on the hands of the government. Shark cull divides a nation There are plenty of solutions on the table - but just how big a problem are shark attacks in Australia? When Laeticia Brouwer was attacked near Esperance on Monday, she became the 15th person to be killed by a shark in Western Australia since 2000, but the first in the country since June last year. The number of shark attacks in Australia - including fatal and non-fatal - has risen over the past century, but in a way that is consistent with how Australia's population has grown. But, as horrific as those incidents are for everyone affected, there is, on average, only one death due to a shark attack in Australia every year. The number of people killed by a shark in Australian waters has changed little over the years despite the country's population - and tourist numbers - booming. In 1950, when there were 8.3m people living in Australia, two people were killed by sharks. Last year, with a population of more than 24m , there were still only two fatalities. John G West, who runs the Australian Shark Attack File, which reports all attacks for the Taronga Conservation Society, says the chances of being killed by a shark now are much slimmer than in previous years. In a 2011 report , he said the number of attacks that were fatal fell from 45% in the 1930s to 10% in the decade leading up to 2011. But while human populations have grown, he points out that the number of sharks has fallen. One thing, though, seems sure. "Encounters with sharks, although a rare event, will continue to occur if humans continue to enter the ocean professionally or for recreational pursuit," Mr West writes.Do terror attacks in the Western world get more attention than others? By Mike Wendling 25 March 2016 Medics try to help wounded people after the 19 March bombing in Istanbul. Following the attacks in Brussels, some social media users claimed recent attacks in Turkey and elsewhere had been downplayed compared to similar attacks in Europe and the West Do some terror attacks get more attention online and from the news media simply because they happen in the Western world? It's become depressingly familiar. Each time there is a terror attack, millions grieve and an online shock wave ripples out. Breaking news of a bombing or shooting is immediately met with a stream of hashtags online: the name of the city, drawings of its famous monuments, "Pray for…" Almost immediately after that - often while people are still physically suffering in the streets or in hospital - come emotive political arguments - often about the Islamic faith, foreign policy, migration and even things like Nato and the European Union. One specific allegation often levelled on social media is that terrorist attacks outside Western Europe and North America are routinely ignored both by social media users and traditional news outlets. After the November 2015 attacks in Paris, for instance, one of the most read articles on the BBC website was about a seven-month-old attack in Kenya . Many people, it appears, were sharing the story to make a point. And a similar line of thought developed after Tuesday's attacks in Brussels. Online news outlets picked up on the chatter with headlines like " Why Brussels mattered and Istanbul didn't " and " These Attacks Happened Days Before Brussels — But You Probably Didn't Hear About Them ". But is it really true? Are people on social networks - and the news media - really "muted" or even "silent" when bombs kill people in Turkey or Kenya? Let's consider social media first. In the days following Tuesday's attacks, "Pray for Brussels" or "Pray for Belgium" was tweeted about 650,000 times. The equivalent figure for the 19 March Istanbul bombing , including "Pray for Turkey" and "Pray for Ankara", was about 400,000. (Those figures include mentions of the phrases in French and Turkish.) The English and French names for Brussels also spiked on Twitter and were used more than 6 million times after Tuesday. After the Istanbul bomb, "Turkey" and "Istanbul" were tweeted 2.2 million times. Keep in mind these are only rough approximations (for instance, many messages might include city and country names without referencing attacks). But we can draw some conclusions. The numbers aren't equal - but they also don't amount to "silence" over events in Turkey. Aside from social media, however, there's the issue of news coverage. And that's where things appear to get interesting. Because despite the levels of chatter on social media, English-language Google searches of news articles indicate that coverage of the Brussels attacks far outstripped that of the bombs in Turkey . By BBC Trending's rough calculation, the term "Istanbul attack" was used fewer than 100,000 times in the past month in articles indexed by Google News, while the term "Brussels attack" returned nearly 14 million uses. Even comparing an atrocity with a roughly similar similar death toll - the Ankara bombing on 13 March - the phrase "Ankara attack" returns around 2 million web pages. Follow BBC Trending on Facebook Join the conversation on this and other stories here . Searching news articles in this way is an imperfect science. But it seems to indicate that English-language news editors, presumably mostly sitting in Europe and North America, decided on the whole that the Brussels attacks were of greater interest to readers and viewers than the bombings in Turkey. There is been no shortage of commentary about how social media is transforming the world of news - and much of it is true. Facebook and Twitter have reshaped the business and the way people watch and read news. Social networks have highlighted stories that might have gone unnoticed, have made journalists more responsive and have opened up new sources and avenues for investigation. But news organisations are still shaped by editors and the choices they make about which big stories to run with on a day-to-day basis. And those decisions, it seems, do not entirely align with what's popular on social networks. Blog by Mike Wendling Next story: What happened when a president joked about 'House of Cards' A video clip showing one of the actors in the hit political thriller House of Cards kicked off an online argument in Argentina. READ MORE You can follow BBC Trending on Twitter @BBCtrending , and find us on Facebook .  All our stories are at bbc.com/trending .Massachusetts shark attack victim 'died doing what he loved' 17 September 2018 A 26-year-old man who was killed in a shark attack in Massachusetts has been identified as an engineering student with plans to marry his girlfriend. Arthur Medici became the first person to die in a shark attack in the state since 1936 on Saturday. Isaac Rocha, the brother of Medici's girlfriend, said the victim had been teaching him to boogie-board, or body surf, when the attack happened. "He was screaming and then I saw, like, a shark tail," Mr Rocha told CBS News. "And I swam to him as fast as I could in that moment. I dragged him back to the shore and I got a boogie-board strap and I kind of tied it around his thigh to try to stop the bleeding." A sunset vigil was held for Medici on Sunday He added that Medici was not moving after he was brought to shore. Emergency responders performed CPR, but he later died in hospital from his injuries, police in the town of Wellfleet said. No life guards were on duty, since they are not posted after the US Labor Day holiday on 3 September. A GoFundMe campaign to raise money to fly Medici's body from Cape Cod to his native Brazil, has raised more than $27,000 (£20,000) as of Monday morning. "We love him so much, he meant the word to us," said Mr Rocha . "He still means the world to us." The victim's aunt told the Boston Herald that he died doing what he loved . Arthur Medici, 26 "Oh my gosh, that's where he wanted to be every day. Every day," Marisa Medici told the newspaper outside her home in Revere, Massachusetts. She said that she had begged him to stay away due to her own fear of sharks. "He'd say, 'Aunt, they're not going to bite me. The sharks don't bite me. I'm Superman!' He was always making jokes about himself. And when it happened, I couldn't believe it was him, that it happened to us. There's no words. No words," she told the paper. Ms Medici said that her nephew was bitten in both legs from behind, severing his femoral arteries and causing him to quickly bleed to death. She said that he was engaged to a medical student, and had been working at a restaurant to support himself as he studied engineering at the Bunker Hill Community College. She added that though a wedding date had not yet been set, he had "bought the ring" and the couple was already planning the wedding shower. "He was very handsome outside, inside, joyful. The house was always full of his laughter," his aunt said. "He never complained. Never complained. He was amazing." Officials have closed beaches in Cape Cod since the attack, and warn that the chance of shark attack has increased this year with rising seal populations, which are sharks' preferred prey.Leicester hospital knife attack nurse 'just doing my job' 27 August 2018 CCTV footage of the rampage A nurse who ushered patients to safety when a man burst into a hospital A&E reception with a knife has insisted she was just doing her job. Yusuf Aka, 22, was jailed on Friday for stabbing a man outside Leicester Royal Infirmary in January before entering and wreaking havoc. Caroline Clayton-Barker, 36, can be seen on CCTV helping patients and even approaching Aka. The mother-of-two said it was "like a horror film". "As soon as I realised he was going to cause havoc I just said, 'right everybody out'," she said. "I don't feel brave, it's just your job, it's your duty of care to protect your patients." Caroline Clayton-Barker no longer works as a nurse Leicester Crown Court heard Aka, of Grovebury Walk, Leicester, stabbed a man in the back outside the emergency department just after 02:00 GMT on January 16. After briefly chasing them, he went into the hospital still holding the knife and lifted screens off desks and threw them around. Aka admitted causing grievous bodily harm, wounding, affray and possession of an offensive weapon and was jailed for five years with an extended five years on licence on release. Police described Aka's attack as "a terrifying experience" for those in the hospital "It was like a horror film, glistening in the light, the blade in the street lights," Ms Clayton-Barker said. "It's very scary to watch back." The CCTV has been watched more than 700,000 times on social media. Marianne Cain wrote: "That nurse deserves a medal." Alexis Taylor commented: "Very brave lady. She needs to be recognised for that." After the CCTV footage ends, Aka was restrained by a security guard and another nurse, Ms Clayton-Barker said. Det Con Chris Symmonds said: "The actions of members of staff who quickly took control of the situation, and led people out of his way without a thought for their own safety, was commendable, and they should be proud of what they accomplished." However Ms Clayton-Barker, who is no longer a nurse, said: "It's just my job, another day at work, but it's nice to be acknowledged."What to do in a terror attack: Police release new video It's hoped enlisting stars like James Haskell and Jade Jones will help the video reach young people. 28 September 2017 BBC News UKSpain attack: What do we know about the victims? 27 August 2017 Tributes appeared at the scene, beside a sign reading: "Catalunya, place of peace" Sixteen people have been killed and dozens more injured in a series of attacks across Spain's Catalonia region. Fourteen people, including two children, were killed when a vehicle drove through crowds in Barcelona's busy Las Ramblas district on Thursday. The area's popularity with tourists means the victims came from many different countries. Soon afterwards a Spanish man was found stabbed to death inside a car thought to have been hijacked by the Ramblas van attacker. Hours later a woman was killed by the attackers who ploughed a car into tourists in the resort town of Cambrils, further down the coast. More than 100 other people from 34 different countries were injured in the attacks and, as of 27 August, 24 people were still receiving treatment in hospital, five of them in a critical condition. Argentina 's foreign ministry said two of its citizens had died: A woman from Belgium was among the first to be confirmed dead. Elke Vanbockrijck, 44, was a postal worker from the town of Tongeren who was on holiday with her husband and two sons. Ian Moore Wilson was named as the Canadian victim One Canadian was killed, named as Ian Moore Wilson. His wife Valerie was also injured, according to their daughter, Vancouver Police Staff Sergeant Fiona Wilson. She described her father as "always game for a lively debate, a good book, exploring new places, and a proper-sized pint". A German woman, 51, died in hospital on 27 August Two Italians were killed, in addition to dual Argentine citizen Carmen Lopardo: "Italy will remember Bruno Gulotta and Luca Russo and expresses its solidarity with their families," the prime minister said in a tweet (in Italian). "Freedom will triumph over barbarism and terrorism." Bruno Gulotta was one of the first victims to be named Portugal has confirmed the deaths of two citizens. Prime Minister Antonio Costa said a 74-year-old woman from Lisbon died during the attack, and Portuguese media say her 20-year-old granddaughter, a resident of London, had also died. Six Spanish victims have been confirmed, among them: United States citizen Jared Tucker , a 43-year-old on honeymoon with his wife, Heidi, was also killed. Mr Tucker leaves behind three teenage daughters. The US couple took this photo in Barcelona about an hour before the attack Seven-year-old Julian Alessandro Cadman, an Australian with dual British citizenship , was confirmed killed several days after the attack took place. He was initially reported missing after he was separated from his mother, who was seriously injured in the attack. His grandfather, Tony Cadman, made a public appeal after Julian went missing, urging people to share his photograph on social media. UK Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson offered his sympathies to Julian's family and said: "His death is a tragedy." Julian Cadman, aged seven, was separated from his mother in the attack'Sinister elements' getting younger people to attack PSNI 6 April Police in Carrickfergus on Sunday night There have been violent incidents in County Antrim for a third night in a row, with young people involved in disturbances in Carrickfergus on Monday night. Five PSNI officers were injured during disorder in County Antrim on Sunday. Police Federation chair Mark Lindsay said "older more sinister elements" were influencing younger people to attack police officers. Petrol bombs were thrown at police in Carrickfergus on Sunday. Officers were also attacked in Newtownabbey on the same night. In Londonderry, police were targeted in the Dungiven Road area on Sunday with children as young as 12 involved . There were reports that police were attacked at the scene of a bomb alert at the Templemore Road, in a predominantly nationalist part of Derry, on Monday night. Speaking to BBC News NI's Good Morning Ulster, Mr Lindsay said there is "obviously paramilitary involvement" in the recent attacks. "Some [young people] don't even know why they are attacking them, they're simply doing as they're told or it's seen by some as a bit of fun or recreational." The Police Federation say "sinister elements" are influencing younger people to attack police 'Criminal elements' Ch Supt Davy Beck described the violence as "senseless" and "reckless". "To those in our community with influence, I would urge you to use that influence so we do not see any further disgraceful scenes of violence on our streets so we can ensure young people do not get caught up in criminality and that they are kept safe and away from harm," he said Ch Supt Beck said there had been an element of "organisation" to the attacks. "I believe there is a small group of disaffected criminal elements involved in influencing young people," he said. He urged young people involved to "think about your future and employment prospects and not get sucked in". He added that police had been "successful in respect of criminal gangs" in the area and the trouble was a "perhaps a reaction from those involved in criminality". Police moving a bin which was set alight on North Road in Carrickfergus on Sunday night The disorder in Newtownabbey started at about 21:00 BST on Sunday at the Cloughfern roundabout. Between 20 to 30 people in masks set bins on fire. When officers moved in to the area, four petrol bombs were thrown at them leaving one officer with a leg injury. About an hour later, on North Road in Carrickfergus, a crowd of up to 50 people gathered and 20 petrol bombs were thrown at police. Four officers were injured after they were struck by masonry and sustained leg, foot and neck injuries. 'Cool heads must prevail' Last week, it emerged that prosecutors would not charge anyone in relation to their attendance at the funeral of republican Bobby Storey. The funeral attracted 2,000 mourners when Covid restrictions were in place. The actions of 24 Sinn Féin politicians who attended were examined, including Deputy First Minister Michelle O'Neill. It led to unionist politicians calling on Police Service of Northern Ireland's (PSNI) Chief Constable Simon Byrne to resign . DUP MLA Christopher Stalford said "cool heads must prevail" and there will be "far reaching effects on the lives of those who are arrested and convicted". He said if people are "angry or frustrated" over issues surrounding the funeral, or the NI Protocol , an element of the Brexit deal which has caused disruption at Northern Ireland's ports, they should "get politically active" and not riot. Sinn Féin MLA and policing board member Gerry Kelly accused unionist leadership, "in particular the DUP", of using rhetoric that has caused the violence. "There is a responsibility in the unionist leadership, political leadership, to show leadership here and not be winding the situation up," he told the programme. "First of all over the hard Brexit that they created and then they're trying to blame everything on the decision that was made recently. "This calling for everybody in high office who they disagree with to resign and demanding their resignation also winds the situation up as well." Burnt-out cars and debris remained at the roundabout on Sunday morning Ulster Unionist MLA Doug Beattie has said "everyone bears responsibility" for the violence that has erupted across Northern Ireland. "Any politician whether they are a nationalist or a unionist to say that it has got nothing to do with them is pretty disgraceful," Mr Beattie said. He added: "For anybody to sit there and not take blame are in absolute denial." SDLP leader and Foyle MP Colum Eastwood described the trouble as "deeply frustrating". He said: "Unionist leaders need to take some responsibility for the incendiary rhetoric they have been using over many weeks. "They need to show some leadership before the consequences become even more severe." Alliance Party MLA John Blair said it was "never acceptable or justifiable to direct that anger at police". 'Stop immediately' Thirty-two police officers have been injured during violence in Belfast and Derry since Friday. On Saturday night, there were disturbances in Newtownabbey, on the outskirts of Belfast. It involved three vehicles being hijacked and set alight, and thirty petrol bombs being thrown at police, at Cloughfern roundabout in the O'Neill Road area. Police described the violence as an "orchestrated attack on police". A number of people have been charged over the incidents. A statement from the Church of Ireland bishops called for the violence "stop immediately". "The PSNI do an incredibly difficult job and deserve our support," the church leaders said. "People may have criticisms of policing but there is a forum for this, and any criticisms should always be expressed respectfully."Dark net experts trade theories on 'de-cloaking' after raids By Dave Lee 10 November 2014 Experts in the hidden web are now seeking clues about how the 27 sites were seized The hidden web community has started trying to find out how services and identities were compromised after police raids led to 17 arrests. Last week, several high-profile sites on the so-called "hidden", "dark" or "deep" web were seized. Experts are looking at techniques the authorities may have used to "de-cloak" people running services accessed through anonymisation service Tor. "We were as surprised as most of you," said the group that develops Tor. In a blog post , the Tor Project team wrote: "We are left asking, 'How did they locate the hidden services?' We don't know. "In liberal democracies, we should expect that when the time comes to prosecute some of the 17 people who have been arrested, the police would have to explain to the judge how the suspects came to be suspects. "As a side benefit of the operation of justice, Tor could learn if there are security flaws in hidden services or other critical internet-facing services." Sites seized showed the following caption The anonymity Tor offers means that it has become popular with criminals as a way to conduct their activities online. But the Tor Project, which receives funding from the US government, is also seen as a key component for those who need anonymity on the internet for other important reasons, such as activism in repressive regimes. 'Operation Onymous' Tor is one of several services that allows people to access what is generally referred to as the "hidden", "deep" or "dark" web. Here, sites that do not show up on traditional search engines are located. But more importantly, users on Tor have their locations, and therefore identities, hidden. This is achieved by routing a person's journey on the internet through various different computers in locations all over the world, creating anonymity. However, with this latest raid, the anonymity of users on Tor is again under question. But one expert, Dr Steven Murdoch, from University College London, told the BBC it was unlikely that Tor itself had been "cracked". "Some major hidden markets are still available," he noted. "Including some of the biggest. The apparent owner of the now-closed Doxbin posted the site's logs for other experts to pore over "If they had a successful way of compromising hidden services they would have done it to everyone." The shutdown of the hidden web services was co-ordinated by Europol in what it dubbed Operation Onymous. In a press release, it said more than 400 services were shut - although it later clarified that to mean 400 pages were disabled. Those pages had belonged to 27 individual services that were seized and closed. The majority of the sites were selling drugs or other illegal paraphernalia, while others dealt with the selling of stolen credit card data. The most high-profile closure was of Silk Road 2.0 - a site selling drugs, set up after the closure of the original Silk Road site last year. The Tor Project went into detail listing possible methods of how the sites were compromised and their owners arrested. They included: 'Hello, internet super-villain here' In an attempt to find clues as to the authorities' tactics, one owner of a seized site - who was apparently not arrested - released log files showing activity on his "onion", the term given to sites on Tor. He offered the logs up to the community for scrutiny. On a mailing list for Tor developers, he wrote: "This will probably be a very humbling experience, because unlike my fellow illegal onion operators both past and present, I will actually be outside of a jail cell and able to read the ruthless dissection of my set-up. Troels Oerting from Europol explained to the BBC's Anna Holligan how the joint police operation unfolded "On the bright side, you're all are getting way more info from me than the pigs [police] will ever willingly cough up, which means if they have some sort of magic onion de-cloak trick, this mailing list discussion is a good chance at finding it." His post, titled, "yes hello, internet super-villain here", shared details of Doxbin, a hidden website that allowed people to upload documents supposedly anonymously. From the logs, some have suggested that the DoS attack, as detailed above, was responsible for "de-anonymising" users of the site. Dr Murdoch noted that getting a real explanation for how Operation Onymous was carried out is unlikely. "They're not going to tell anyone about it because they want to do it again," he said. "They want people to be afraid to run illegal hidden services." Follow Dave Lee on Twitter @DaveLeeBBC Explainer: What is Tor? Tor is a special way to access the internet that requires software, known as the Tor Browser bundle, to use it. The name is an acronym for The Onion Router - just as there are many layers to the vegetable, there are many layers of encryption on the network. It was originally designed by the US Naval Research Laboratory, and continues to receive funding from the US State Department. It attempts to hide a person's location and identity by sending data across the internet via a very circuitous route involving several "nodes" - which, in this context, means using volunteers' PCs and computer servers as connection points. Encryption applied at each hop along this route makes it very hard to connect a person to any particular activity. To the website that ultimately receives the request, it appears as if the data traffic comes from the last computer in the chain - known as an "exit relay" - rather than the person responsible. As well as allowing users to visit normal websites anonymously, it can also be used as part of a process to host hidden sites, which use the .onion suffix. Tor's users include the military, law enforcement officers and journalists - who use it as a way of communicating with whistle-blowers - as well as members of the public who wish to keep their browser activity secret. But it has also been associated with illegal activity, allowing people to visit sites offering illegal drugs for sale and access to child abuse images, which do not show up in normal search engine results and would not be available to those who did not know where to look.Tesco Bank attack: What do we know? 7 November 2016 WATCH: Experts say the attack is unlike any they have seen before Supermarket giant Tesco has suspended some parts of its online banking system after it detected attempts to steal cash from customers' accounts. It said it spotted "suspicious transactions" on 40,000 accounts over the weekend, with money reportedly taken from about half of them. Tesco has declined to elaborate on what happened, or say how much cash went astray, but said it was working with the National Crime Agency to investigate and find the culprits. Is this the first of its kind? Yes, because this seems to be the first time that a UK bank has reacted so publicly by stopping some types of transactions on a web banking system because of "online criminal activity". Banks are targeted all the time but typically those attacks just hit a few individuals, so do not bring about a site closure. In this case, as far as we can tell, a lot of people lost cash very quickly. Security expert Troy Hunt said the incident was unprecedented in its scale. He added that the shutdown was "embarrassing" for Tesco and indicated how serious it was. Updates to websites can introduce bugs and vulnerabilities that attackers can exploit Was it hacked? Tesco did not use the "H" word in its statement and in interviews its chief executive and other people speaking on behalf of the company have been careful in their choice of language. It has said that the attack was "sophisticated" and that an initial investigation had revealed exactly what had happened. So far, it has not shared that information but Tesco's actions in the wake of the weekend's events do help to narrow down the possibilities. By letting customers withdraw cash from ATMs, use cards in shops and pay bills, it suggests that whatever went wrong does not involve the core computer systems underpinning Tesco bank. These systems used to be run by RBS but since 2008 Tesco has operated independently. Security expert James Maude, from software company Avecto, said Tesco's decision to suspend online transactions combined with the information that so many people were hit at once clearly suggests problems with its website. All too often, he said, maintenance or website updates can introduce errors and bugs that were not present before. Cyber-thieves are constantly scanning valuable websites to spot changes and will swoop if one emerges. It might also be the case that a third party connected to Tesco had a security issue and attackers got in via that route, which has happened in some of the biggest attacks in recent memory. To improve protection on bank accounts use a unique, hard to guess password Can it stop this happening again? Most cybersecurity experts have a very jaundiced view of the world that they often sum up by saying: "Everything is broken and there is always a way in." In short, there is no way that any organisation can keep it, and its customers and their data, safe all the time. Many organisations now assume they will be breached and set up monitoring systems to spot when that happens, while also training staff to react quickly to fix problems. Nik Whitfield, from security firm Panaseer, said often firms were caught out by vulnerabilities that emerge in software they use rather than through a change they make. It can be hard for organisations to keep across these factors because they use so many software packages. In addition, some of the bugs are found by malicious hackers who sell them to gangs that want to use them. In these cases, the first an organisation will know about a bug is when it is used against them. Tesco has had problems with some other web-based systems in the past. In 2014, thousands of Tesco customers' net accounts were deactivated after login names and passwords were shared online. In that case , Tesco said attackers had compiled the data by using details stolen from other sites, because some Tesco customers reused passwords. How did it notice the suspicious activity? Like many other banks, Tesco has automatic fraud-spotting systems that keep an eye on accounts and build up a picture of normal activity. It is these kind of systems that can catch you out if you suddenly use your credit or debit card to buy lots of things from lots of different places in just a few minutes. It is these monitoring systems that are believed to have alerted Tesco to the problems that led to it suspending the site and halting transactions. Most bank sites offer two-factor authentication which is worth using to improve security Can I protect myself against these kinds of attacks? We still do not know the details of what happened so it is difficult to give concrete advice. However, it is worth taking a few simple steps to protect your online account. First, choose a good password and do not reuse one that you use elsewhere. Use the bank's two-factor authentication and keep an eye on the transactions carried out via your account. Keep security software on your PC, phone or tablet up-to-date and be on the lookout for phishing emails that capitalise on news about any breach. James Chappell, chief technology officer at computer security service Digital Shadows, said it was already starting to see cyber-gangs it monitors sending out spam posing as updates from Tesco security staff. The gangs are hoping to trick people into handing over their Tesco account details to let thieves take advantage.Snowden leaks: GCHQ 'attacked Anonymous' hackers 5 February 2014 GCHQ is reported to have disrupted at least one chatroom service used by Anonymous GCHQ disrupted "hacktivist" communications by using one of their own techniques against them, according to the latest Edward Snowden leaks. Documents from the whistle-blower published by NBC indicate UK cyberspies used a denial of service attack (DoS) in 2011 to force a chatroom used by the Anonymous collective offline. A spokeswoman for GCHQ said all the agency's activities were authorised and subject to rigorous oversight. But others say it raises concerns. Dr Steven Murdoch, a security researcher at the University of Cambridge, said using a DoS attack to overwhelm a computer server with traffic would have risked disrupting other services. "It's quite possible that the server was used for other purposes which would have been entirely unrelated to Anonymous," he said. "It's also likely that most of the chat that was going on about Anonymous was not to do with hacking because the people who join Anonymous are fairly wide-ranging in what they think it is legitimate to do. "Some have gone into criminality but many others just go out and organise protests, letter-writing campaigns and other things that are not criminal." Campaign group Privacy International is also worried. "There is no legislation that clearly authorises GCHQ to conduct cyber-attacks," said head of research Eric King. "So, in the absence of any democratic mechanisms, it appears GCHQ has granted itself the power to carry out the very same offensive attacks politicians have criticised other states for conducting." The UK government's Cyber Security Strategy document, published in 2011 , says officials should take "proactive measures to disrupt threats to our information security", but also notes that any such action should be consistent with freedom of expression and privacy rights. Hacker arrests The latest documents are published alongside an article part-written by Glenn Greenwald. The journalist is one of only two people reported to have access to all whistle-blower Edward Snowden's leaked documents. GCHQ has not discussed the specifics of the operations included in the Snowden leaks The article highlights that the Joint Threat Research Intelligence Group (JTRIG) is the division identified as being responsible for the DoS attack  - a unit whose existence had not previously been publicly disclosed. The documents indicate the unit also spied on and communicated with chatroom users to identify hackers who had stolen information. In one case, agents are said to have tricked a hacker nicknamed P0ke who claimed to have stolen data from the US government. They did this by sending him a link to a BBC article entitled: "Who loves the hacktivists?" "Sexy," P0ke is alleged to have commented. But when he clicked the link it is reported that JTRIG was able to bypass measures he had taken to hide his identity, although it is not clear how. GCHQ is said to have tricked one hacktivist by sending him a link to a BBC article NBC reports that P0ke - a Scandinavian college student - was never arrested despite GCHQ learning his true name. But the leaks indicate others were imprisoned as a result of JTRIG operations. One paper highlights the case of Edward Pearson - a hacker known as GZero - who was sentenced to two years in jail in 2012 for illegally acquiring credit and debit card details registered with PayPal. A transcript of a chatroom conversation indicates that Pearson had contacted GCHQ agents claiming he knew a hacktivist they were investigating, unaware of the agents' true identity. 'Grey area' In addition to Anonymous, the documents list LulzSec, the A-Team and the Syrian Cyber Army as hacktivist groups GCHQ was concerned about. In one case it appears simply warning activists that carrying out their own DoS attacks was illegal had the desired effect. NBC reports that the notice was posted via Facebook, Twitter, email, instant messenger and Skype. One alleged GCHQ document states that one month later 80% of those contacted had stopped using a hacktivist chatroom. Several of the Lulzsec hackers have been arrested after carrying out DoS attacks But the documents also indicate that GCHQ was willing to use DoS attacks itself as part of an operation codenamed Rolling Thunder, which prevented hacktivists using a chatroom for 30 hours in September 2011. GCHQ has a longstanding policy of not commenting on specific intelligence-gathering procedures, but a spokeswoman said all its work was "carried out in accordance with a strict legal and policy framework". Even so, one cybersecurity expert said he had mixed feelings about the latest leaks. "We have to remember that cyberspooks within GCHQ are equally, if not more, skilled than many black-hat hackers, and the tools and techniques they are going to use to fight cybercrime are surely going to be similar to that of the bad guys," said Andrew Miller, chief operating officer at Corero Network. "Legally, we enter a very grey area here; where members of Lulzsec were arrested and incarcerated for carrying out DoS attacks, but it seems that JTRIG are taking the same approach with impunity."Top tips on how to avoid a shark attack and what to do if you are attacked 20 July 2015 Surfer Mick Fanning: "I punched the shark in the back" A professional Australian surfer has been attacked by a shark on live TV during an event in South Africa. Mick Fanning was competing in a World Surf League competition when the shark came at him from behind. He punched the creature and escaped on a rescue craft. Unprovoked shark attacks on humans are rare with an average of around 75 per year, resulting in about 10 deaths.  You have a greater chance of dying from a bee sting or being hit by lightning. But with their amazing sense of smell, taste, hearing and sight, what can you do to avoid a shark attack? And what can you do if you are attacked? A black-footed albatross tries to escape from the jaws of a Tiger shark Avoid being in the water from sunset to sunrise This is when sharks are most active. Also avoid swimming during or after storms, which can make the water cloudy and churn up the fish that sharks feed on. They won't be able to tell if you're human or prey. The same applies to river mouths -  where the water can be muddy. Stay in a group Bethany Hamilton was 13 when she was attacked by a tiger shark during a morning surf People on their own are more likely to be attacked than large groups. Don't wander too far from the shoreline. The further you are from the shore, the further you are from help. Consider your clothing Avoid wearing shiny jewellery, because the reflected light resembles the shimmer of fish scales. Also don't wear brightly-coloured or patterned clothing, because sharks see contrast particularly well. Special striped wetsuits which look like poisonous, black and white banded sea snakes are being tested which warn a shark that a diver or surfer isn't safe to eat. Don't enter water being used by amateur or commercial fisherman Sharks can sense the smells emitted from bait at incredible distances, so steer clear of areas where fishermen are using rods and the routes which fishing boats use. It's fairly obvious that you shouldn't feed sharks. Avoid contaminated or contaminating water Stay out of water with sewage being pumped into it and don't enter the water if you are bleeding. They both attract sharks. Look out for sharks' prey If other marine mammals such as seals are around, the chances are that sharks will be too. Also be on the lookout for signs of bait fishes or feeding activity - diving seabirds are good indicators. Animals that eat the same food items are often found nearby. Remember, a predator is never too far from its prey. Don't splash about Try not to splash around while in the water, and don't allow pets in the water because of their splashing movements. You don't want to make the same movements as a shark's favourite meal makes. Be careful where you swim It's probably not a great idea to swim between sandbars or near steep drop-offs in the ocean, because those are the favourite places for sharks to congregate. Stay away from shark-infested waters Don't enter the water if sharks are known to be present, and get out of the sea if sharks are seen while there. And, of course, don't harass a shark if you see one. Stay still if you spot a shark If you do see a shark stay where you are as quietly as possible. Most sharks are just curious and will leave on their own. If you can, stay relaxed. Attacks are very rare. If attacked, attack back If you are targeted by a shark, the general rule is, do whatever it takes to get away - but do it calmly. But try to fight back and startle it. The best place to hit is its nose. Also try to claw at its eyes and grab its gills, two of the most sensitive areas on a shark. Never take your eyes off the shark, because they have several methods of attack including hit-and-run and bump-and-bite. Make sure you're able to defend your front and sides and use a weapon like a surf board if possible, don't use your hands. If you are bitten, stop the bleeding and get help as soon as possible. The tips were put together by George H. Burgess, senior biologist in Ichthyology at the Florida Museum of Natural History. Follow @BBCNewsbeat on Twitter, BBCNewsbeat on Instagram, Radio1Newsbeat on YouTube and you can now follow BBC_Newsbeat on SnapchatWest Belfast: Child left 'traumatised' after man is shot 10 December 2020 The attack happened in Hazel Glen in west Belfast A man has been shot in both legs in what police have described as a "merciless attack" in west Belfast where a young child was present. It happened at a house in Hazel Glen about 20:00 GMT on Wednesday. Two masked men forced their way into the property and fired a number of shots at the man in the hallway. The victim, who was left with "significant injuries," is being treated in hospital. Police said the incident had left a child and a woman in the house "extremely traumatised" after hearing the attack being carried out. 'Violate the rights of others' "Those who are involved in these attacks do not represent the interests of this community, nor do they contribute anything to it," said PSNI Det Insp O'Flaherty. Police have appealed for witnesses following the shooting "They do it to try and exert influence, or gain control of those they claim to represent. No one has the right to violate the rights of others," they added. As part of their enquiries into the shooting, police are are also investigating a possible link with a report of a burnt-out Audi A3 found off McKinstry Road, just before 20:30 on Wednesday. Police said they were trying to establish a motive for the attack and have appealed for witnesses.Brown Clee Hill: Killer 'roamed around' looking for targets 25 February Moses Christensen denies murder by reason of diminished responsibility A man "roamed around" looking for people he could kill before fatally stabbing a 70-year-old hill walker, a court has heard. Richard Hall suffered 26 injuries, including a "horrific" wound to his hand when he was attacked on Brown Clee Hill in Shropshire last August. Moses Christensen, 22, told police he planned to kill and searched for victims, Stafford Crown Court heard. Mr Christensen denies murder by reason of diminished responsibility. He was found, soaking wet, by officers outside the home of a woman who had called police. On Thursday, extracts of his interviews with police after his arrest were read out in court. He told officers his intention was to "go out and kill or be killed" adding that he looked for "small groups who I thought I could overpower". "I had planned to kill people," he said. Richard Hall suffered 26 injuries in the attack, the court heard "It was sort of a gradual, long process for me. It was planned, it was calculated to a large extent. I think that's a very important point." He had considered attacking an elderly couple and when asked by an officer why he did not carry it out, Mr Christensen, of Corser Street, Stourbridge, West Midlands, said he "didn't feel comfortable". "I could see people on the hillside in the distance so I planned for further targets. That is what I was doing," he said. But the attack on Mr Hall, from Perton in South Staffordshire, happened when foggy conditions provided a "good opportunity", with many of Mr Christensen's "criteria" in place, jurors heard. Dr Brett Lockyer, a Home Office-approved pathologist, told the court Mr Hall suffered wounds to his neck and chest, as well as one penetrating his skull. He would have died in "seconds to minutes" due to the severity of his injuries, Dr Lockyer said. Jurors must decide if the killing was murder or manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility. The trial continues. Follow BBC West Midlands on Facebook , Twitter and Instagram . Send your story ideas to: newsonline.westmidlands@bbc.co.ukDo Republican attacks on Obama strike a chord? Mark Mardell @BBCMarkMardell 10 January 2012 Comments Republicans have had some sharp words about Obama's economic policies - but do they add up? Waterville Valley, New Hampshire: Skiers in bright clothes snake down the mountain side in the brilliant sunshine of the White Mountains . But puffs of fine fog further up the slope are a tell-tale sign of an unseasonable annoyance. No snow. The mist from half a dozen blowers is man-made snow. The skiing is fine, but the resort as a whole feels less wintry than it should. That is a worry to some in a state where tourism long ago replaced manufacturing as the main source of income. No-one blames President Obama for the weather. The White House isn't accused of stopping snow with too many regulations. That is almost a surprise. But the Republican candidates vying to become their party's candidate for president do blame him for most of the country's economic woes, and do so in strong language. They suggest he's killed jobs and is taking the US on an un-American road. Front-runner Mitt Romney says in every speech that Obama is turning an enterprise culture into a European-style entitlement society. Given that the latest figures suggest the economy is picking up, I wonder how this plays now. Particularly in New Hampshire, a state that is richer, has less poverty and lower unemployment than most in the USA . The Waterville Valley ski resort's boss is Chris Sununu, the son of John, former White House chief of staff and New Hampshire governor . Chris Sununu says both as a businessman and a Republican he does blame Obama for the state of the economy. "When you have a strategy of big bloated government, a lot of regulation, and the sense that government can do better than the individual can, that's just not what America was built on, and that's not what drives a good free economy," he says. I put it to him that is fine as political rhetoric, but question whether Obama's policies have really hurt his thriving ski resort. "Without a doubt," Sununu said. "In the season, I have close to 500 to 800 employees at any given time. The healthcare costs alone can be enormous on that. But if I don't know what the regulations are gonna be, if I think government is going to be too overbearing on me, then I have to hold my cash. "I have to hold back. I can't expand. I can't be creative. I can't give my employees the benefits that they might need because I don't know what's coming down the road. It's that uncertainty that so many businesses in America are facing today, that we just gotta get out from underneath." Not everyone agrees that the language of the campaign reflects reality. At the house party for Republican candidate Jon Huntsman  which I mentioned yesterday , I ran into Donald Byrne. Mr Byrne is the boss of a software company and an independent who's re-registered as a Republican so he can vote for the former ambassador to China and Utah governor. He says the language used about Obama is pandering to the base. "I think the Republican party in the United States has shifted very far to the right," he says. "Being a moderate is a negative in this campaign and that's very unfortunate, because the majority of Americans are moderate and well balanced in their thought process. "There is too much pandering to these right-wing extreme sides." It is the nature of elections that choices are put in stark, easy-to-understand terms. I have no doubt that in 2012 two very different visions of America will be on offer. But does a polarised politics force cruder choices than might be good for a country's economic health? I meet Bob Bastani, a senior New Hampshire Republican and economist, in his home over-looking New Hampshire's beautiful coastal basin near Newmarket. He worked in the treasury team under the first President Bush, most recently headed a bank in the Philippines and ran unsuccessfully for Congress. He told me that while politics still was a battle between the economics of Milton Friedman and John Maynard Keynes , in reality, neither theory can cope with the current crisis. "That battle between those two views has been the central debate in economics for almost 100 years now, but they have converged somewhere in the middle," Mr Bastani said. "If you look at Keynesian economics, they have moved much more towards an acceptance of monetary policy. "That's part of the problem: the two have sort of met in the middle, and are stuck there with no real policy prescriptions. So there is no real black-and-white answer much as we would like to have black-and-white answers. "So if you have the two principal instruments of economic management no longer working, then what do you do? And that's the central conundrum." Still, campaigning in primary colours works well, even if you have to govern in grey. Republican voters choosing a candidate on Tuesday may be looking for the man best able to excoriate Obama, rather than the one most suited to replace him. By the time the polls close, he may even have been blamed for the lack of snow.London Bridge attack: What powers do the police have? 4 June 2017 Following the London terror attack, which left seven people dead and 48 injured, Theresa May has said the UK must adapt to a "new trend" in terrorism. There were 255 terrorism-related arrests in the year ending 31 March 2016 , according to the latest statistics from the Home Office. The arrests led to 37 prosecutions. In 2015, 128 terrorist and extremist prisoners were released from custody, the Home Office says. Reality Check has been looking into the main powers the police and security services have to stop suspected terrorists. Stop and search Under Section 43 of the Terrorism Act 2000 the police can stop and search a suspect if they have reasonable suspicion of involvement in terrorist activities. It's difficult to know how many stop and searches are carried out under this power as most police forces don't separate Section 43 from other types of stop and search. One force that does hold the data is the Met police. They say that 541 people were searched under the Terrorism Act in the 12 months to March 2016 - a rise of 32% on the previous year. The police also have the power to search suspects even if they don't have suspicion of any links to terrorist activities. In May 2012 the rules were tightened: the police can only carry out searches in designated places where they have reasonable grounds to believe an act of terrorism will take place. 14 day detention At present anyone arrested under the Terrorism Act can be held without charge for up to 14 days. In 2006 the law was changed in order to double the maximum period to 28 days. Only six suspects were ever held for that length. In 2011 it reverted back to 14 days . This was during the coalition government when it was decided not to proceed with the annual vote in Parliament to keep it at 28 days. Theresa May was home secretary at the time. In the year to March 2016, 46 people were detained under the powers - 25 of whom were charged. The longest anyone was held for was 13 days, which happened on three occasions during that year. Power to arrest suspects planning an attack The police can arrest individuals who they suspect of planning an attack. Section 5 of the 2006 Terrorism Act made it a specific offence to prepare (or help others prepare) for an act of terrorism. The maximum sentence for this offence is imprisonment for life. According to the CPS, 25 people were convicted under Section 5 in the year ending September 2016, up from 11 in the previous 12 months. There is no specific offence for carrying out a terrorist act. If a perpetrator was arrested after committing an attack they would be charged with offences such as murder or grievous bodily harm. It is also an offence for someone not to tell the police about someone they believe is involved in planning a terrorism act. A conviction for this offence can lead to a five year maximum sentence. Banned organisations Organisations can be banned by the home secretary if they are believed to be participating, promoting or encouraging terrorism. Being a member - or claiming to be a member - of a banned organisation can lead to a maximum of 10 years in prison and or a fine. The Home Office says 71 international terrorist organisations are proscribed under the Terrorism Act 2000. Surveillance A small number of agencies are able to carry out surveillance inside residential premises or private vehicles. The power requires authorisation by the secretary of state. The Office of Surveillance Commissioners provides independent oversight. The security services also have the power to intercept communication data. The power is available to nine agencies, including GCHQ and MI5. The Investigatory Powers Act, passed in 2016, compels internet companies to keep records of every website and messaging service UK-based citizens visit for a year. TPims Terrorism Prevention and Investigation Measures, or TPims, are a form of house arrest. It applies to people who are deemed a threat but cannot be prosecuted or deported if they are a foreign national. They were first introduced in 2012 and replaced controversial control orders. Those under TPims can be subjected to electronic tagging, having to report regularly to the police and surrendering travel documents. A suspect must live at home and stay there overnight - possibly for up to 10 hours. Electronic tags are used to monitor the movements of criminals The suspect is allowed to use a mobile phone and the internet to work and study, subject to conditions. In 2015, TPims were toughened by granting the ability to relocate subjects up to 200 miles away from their normal residence. TPims initially last for one year, although they can be extended to two. It is possible for them to remain beyond the two-year maximum if there is suspicion of further terrorism activity. A breach of the TPims can lead to imprisonment. As of November 2016, seven people were subjected to TPims - six of whom were British citizens. Temporary Exclusion Orders Temporary Exclusion Orders (TEOs) were created by the 2015 Counter-Terrorism and Security Act. They apply to British citizens suspected of involvement in terrorist activity abroad. They are designed to stop suspects from re-entering the UK unless they give themselves up at the border. Those subjected to TEOs are only allowed to return if they make contact with the UK authorities. If they do come back, they are likely to face either prosecution or close supervision under monitoring powers. The Orders last for up to two years at a time and can be renewed. Breaches could lead to a prison sentence. The home secretary applies the TEO where they "reasonably suspect that the subject is or has been involved in terrorism-related activity while outside the UK". The government released details on its disruptive and investigatory powers in February. In the wake of the Manchester bombing, the Home Secretary Amber Rudd confirmed they had been used once so far. Port and border controls Schedule 7 of the Terrorism Act 2000 gives the police the power to stop, search and hold individuals at ports, airports and international railway stations. Initially individuals could be questioned for up to nine hours - although a change in the guidelines means it is now up to six hours. The police also have the power to inspect electronic devices such as phones and laptops. The police do not need prior knowledge or suspicion to use Schedule 7 - although the Home Office says it's done after "informed considerations". A total of 23,717 people were stopped under the power in the year ending June 2016, a fall of 23% on the previous year. Despite fewer people being stopped, the number detained under the power has increased by 7%, rising from 1,649 to 1,760 in the same period. Read more from Reality Check Follow us on TwitterPolice release 'what to do in a gun attack' film A public information film about what to do in the event of a gun attack has been released by the police. The film has been put on YouTube so it can be watched and shared by the public. It follows the attacks in Paris and Tunisia, and amid concerns that similar attacks could be planned for the UK. Home Affairs correspondent Daniel Sandford reports. You can watch the film here . 18 December 2015 BBC News UKSahayb Abu: Terror plot accused made pro-IS comments for a 'thrill' 1 March Sahayb Abu (right) and his brother Muhamed Abu were filmed on CCTV in a fast food restaurant A former prisoner accused of plotting a terror attack has told an Old Bailey jury he made pro-Islamic State comments for a "thrill" during lockdown in 2020. Sahayb Abu, 27, admits buying an 18-inch (46cm) sword, knife, body armour, balaclavas and a hat - but denies doing so in preparation for an attack. He told his trial he searched for IS online for news of two half-brothers, who are believed to have died in Syria. Mr Abu, from Dagenham, agreed with a prosecutor he had a grudge against IS. He told John McGuinness QC he "would not care" if the terror group was bombed to bits. Giving evidence, he said he was no Mother Teresa or Dalai Lama, and his "pro-violence" posts on social media were just "trolling". He added: "This happened during lockdown. Nothing to do. The phone became a kind of portal. Being a troll." 'I know it's sad' Mr Abu is alleged to have discussed guns with an undercover police officer he met through an IS supporters' Telegram chat group. During cross-examination, the prosecutor asked him about one post in which he described Islam as being a religion of "war", saying: "That post could have been posted by somebody who believes in the ideas of IS, do you agree? And those are your words. "Bearing in mind the personal tragedy that had befallen your family because of the activities of IS, why post something like that?" In response, Mr Abu told the jury: "Because it would bring a thrill to my life. I know it's sad. I know it's pathetic." Wail and Suleyman Aweys died in Syria - police did not reveal which brother is which in the photo But Mr McGuinness went on to tell the defendant: "You did what your brothers did, you joined them. You became an IS supporter." Mr Abu replied: "No, I did not support them at all. I wanted to do good things in my life." His brother Muhamed Abu, 32, of Norwood, south London, is also on trial at the Old Bailey. He denies failing to disclose information about acts of terrorism. The trial continues.Dollar singer David Van Day 'doing fine' after heart attack 1 November 2016 Van Day took part in ITV's I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here in 2008 David Van Day, a former member of pop duo Dollar, is "doing fine" after suffering a heart attack, his spokesman has said. The singer was taken to a hospital in Essex over the weekend after suffering chronic chest pain for several days. The 59-year-old was later moved to St Bartholomew's Hospital in central London for treatment. A representative told the BBC that Van Day has "had a stent fitted to [a] main artery". Van Day tweeted a message thanking his fans for support A stent is a short wire-mesh tube, inserted into the artery via a catheter . The stent is left in place permanently to allow blood to flow through the artery more freely. Van Day's spokesman said the singer "should be leaving for home soon" following the operation but will need to rest for the next month. The singer has cancelled his scheduled appearances for November. He tweeted: "Thanks for all the kind and positive messages I've had today. I'm hoping to make a speedy recovery." David Van Day and Canadian-born Thereza Bazar made up 1980s pop duo Dollar Van Day, together with Canadian-born Thereza Bazar, made up Dollar - a pop duo who had a string of chart hits in the late 1970s and 1980s, including Mirror Mirror and Give Me Back My Heart. The singer took part in the 2008 series of ITV's I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here!, finishing in fourth place behind winner Joe Swash, George Takei and Martina Navratilova. Follow us on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts , on Instagram at bbcnewsents , or if you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk .Attack hits Wikileaks cable site 30 November 2010 The attack on the site managed to make it inaccessible on the afternoon of 30 November A web attack has been launched against the Wikileaks site set up to host leaked US diplomatic cables. The deluge of data launched against the site managed to briefly make it unreachable around 1200 GMT on 30 November. So far no-one has come forward to claim responsibility for the so-called denial-of-service (DoS) attack. A similar attack was launched against the main Wikileaks site prior to the public release of the first cables. Wikileaks revealed that the separate cablegate website was suffering a distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack via a message posted to its Twitter stream. The cablegate site went live on Sunday night and soon after started to suffer occasional downtime. A DDoS attack involves swamping a site with so many requests for access that it becomes overwhelmed. Data gathered by net monitoring firm Netcraft showed that the cablegate site was intermittently available around Tuesday lunchtime and early afternoon because of the attack. Prior to the launch of the site, Wikileaks had taken the precaution of hosting it on three separate IP addresses to cope with any attack. "This does not appear to have prevented the current attack from succeeding," wrote Paul Mutton, a security analyst at Netcraft, in a blog post He told the BBC that it was hard to work out what type of attack was under way. At the weekend before the cablegate site went live, a hacktivist known only as The Jester threatened to attack Wikileaks claiming its leak of cables would endanger US troops. Mr Mutton said the latest attack was unlikely to be the work of The Jester as he has typically used Twitter to announce his targets. Something that was not done before the latest attack began. "The cablegate site has only released 281 of the 251,287 leaked cables, so these attacks are likely to be symbolic action more than anything else," said Mr Mutton. As cablegate came under attack, a separate ongoing assault against the main Wikileaks site made it unreachable on Tuesday afternoon.Metropolitan Police issues guidance on what to do in a gun attack Guidance on what to do in the event of a terrorist gun attack has been released by police. The four-minute video was produced before the 13 November attacks in Paris and the 26 June attack in Sousse, Tunisia, but has only recently been made public. The simple guidelines of "run, hide, tell" vary in one key way from the advice issued by some US authorities. Karl Mercer reports. You can watch the full information video here . 19 December 2015 BBC News UKThe real Moby Dick: Do whales really attack humans? By Rebecca Coxon 20 December 2013 Whales undoubtedly have complex brains, but are they capable of acts of revenge? The revenge of a whale or an accidental tragedy? A dramatic retelling of the story that inspired Herman Melville's classic novel will be hitting our screens on BBC One this Sunday - but do whales really attack humans intentionally? Sperm whales are relatively placid mammals and very few incidents in modern times suggest otherwise. They mainly feed on squid and rarely attack, apparently only when mistaking other mammals for seals or prey. In his 1839 book about the natural history of sperm whales, Thomas Beale, a surgeon aboard a whaleship, described them as "a most timid and inoffensive animal readily endeavouring to escape from the slightest thing which bears an unusual appearance". But Dr Richard Bevan, a zoologist and lecturer at Newcastle University, suggests that a sperm whale may remember if it was previously attacked. "I have no doubt that an individual would remember being harpooned and might respond aggressively if it thought that it was threatened," he said. Gregory Peck (front, second from right) portrayed Ahab in the 1956 film version of Moby Dick "On the other hand a large vessel like a whaling boat would probably look like a very large threat, even to a full grown sperm whale, so I'd have thought it more likely to have moved away." But 19th century literature seems to suggest otherwise, with numerous stories of sperm whales attacking ships on purpose. But were they fuelled by threat, hunger or, as in Melville's classic novel, even revenge? In 1820, a giant sperm whale, apparently 85 feet long (the average is 50ft) attacked a whaleship named the Essex, causing her to sink. Her crew were left adrift in three whaleboats (lighter boats used in the capture of whales) thousands of miles from land. Alone in the middle of the Pacific Ocean the men had to decide whether to head for the nearest islands, a thousand miles downwind to the west, or set out on an epic journey of almost three thousand miles to reach the South American mainland. Fear of cannibals forced them to choose South America, but they never made it. Of the 21 crew members aboard The Essex, just eight members of the crew were rescued after more than 80 days at sea; with an incredible tale of starvation, dehydration and unfathomable, mortal desperation to tell. Whaling was a lucrative business in the 19th Century, driven by commodities such as whale oil Two members of the crew wrote accounts of the failed voyage. First mate Owen Chase's account was a widely circulated story of the time, published just months after his return home. The other, written by cabin boy Thomas Nickerson 50 years later, was not published, but, remarkably, was discovered in an attic in 1960, 80 years after Nickerson's death. Their accounts differ in places, but what is indisputable is that they both recall exactly how their supposedly "lucky" ship sank. It was stove by a giant whale. Herman Melville heard this story, met with the captain of the Essex and was inspired to write his classic novel Moby Dick. Moby Dick was actually named after a real whale, Mocha Dick, first spotted by sailors in the 19th century near the island of Mocha, near southern Chile. Whales were often given pet names by sailors, Tom and Dick were common - though there are no accounts of a Harry. Mocha Dick was an albino whale, described by explorer Jerimiah N Reynolds as "an old bull whale of prodigious size and strength… white as wool". Legend has it that it killed 30 men and was covered in scars and punctured with spears from previous attempts to harpoon it; before eventually being slaughtered in 1838. Sometimes described as Leviathans, sperm whales truly are creatures of mythical proportions. They have the largest teeth of any whale and live to be more than 60 years old. They can dive deeper than any other sea mammal (around 3km) in order to catch their favourite deep sea food, the elusive squid. But it is the fact that they have the largest brains on Earth, ones that are more complex - in certain ways - than those of humans, that is perhaps most surprising. Their cerebral cortex is much more convoluted than the human cortex, and they are social creatures with strong bonds, staying in stable social groupings and keeping constant companions throughout their lifespan. Dr Lindy Weilgart, a research associate in the department of biology at Dalhousie University in Canada, believes that in order "to remember all their complex social relationships (families, more distantly related kin, non-related group members), they require a good memory". In fact, remembering traumatic past incidents could well have been the trigger for the whale that rammed the Essex. "Briefly, I do believe a sperm whale is capable of the aggression necessary to attack a ship, especially a mother if her young was threatened," Dr Weilgart says. "I know whalers in general often harpooned calves but kept them alive so as to attract the rest of the family group which came in aid of the calf." "They then harpooned those adults", she says, a practice that was "particularly cruel". However, Dr Bevan suggests that while "the cetaceans do have large brains… this is linked to their ability to process sound rather than being linked to what we regard as intelligence". Whether they can feel emotions like vengeance, is in dispute. It is possible that the whale changed course underwater at the last minute and unwittingly collided with the ship. The Whale on BBC One tells the story of the ill-fated voyage of The Essex Dr Per Berggren, a lecturer in marine science at Newcastle University and specialist in marine mammals, believes this to be nearer the truth. "It is perhaps more likely that the ship accidentally hit the whale and sustained a leak large enough to sink the vessel." But what is remarkable in the case of the Essex sinking, is that the whale came back to strike a second time. First Mate Chase recalled: "I turned around and saw him… directly ahead of us, coming down with twice his ordinary speed… with ten-fold fury and vengeance in his aspect. "The surf flew in all directions about him with the continual violent thrashing of his tail. His head about half out of the water, and in that way he came upon us, and again struck the ship. "The ship brought up as suddenly and violently as if she had struck a rock and trembled for a few minutes like a leaf." Latest research shows that whales are self-aware, sentient and more intelligent than previously thought. They can feel pain and suffering and therefore potentially a level of cognitive function; it is also now thought they can even experience feelings of love. Tilikum, a captive orca, was involved in the death of a trainer in 2010 Sperm whales do not have many predators, killer whales (orcas) are known to have attacked sperm whales and occasionally sharks; but since the early 1700s by a large the most serious predator of sperm whales has been homo sapiens. Whaling in the 19th century was a lucrative business as whale oil became immensely valuable for lighting oil lamps and making candles and soaps. More than 900 whaleships were out to sea in the mid-1800s, hailing mainly from American ports, with an average voyage length of three or four years. By the mid 19th century, whale numbers were depleting rapidly. But with the discovery of petroleum in Pennsylvania in 1859, the American whaling industry had almost completely disappeared by the start of World War I. Whale hunting is now illegal in most parts of the world (though still practised by some nations such as Norway and Japan) and concerns about the welfare of whales in captivity are currently making waves in the news. The documentary film Blackfish, about an orca in captivity at SeaWorld Orlando that was involved in several deaths, has recently caused controversy for the theme park. The documentary suggests that keeping the whales in captivity may be causing them to behave psychotically. Acts including Willie Nelson and Barenaked Ladies have recently cancelled performances at the park in the wake of the film's release. But SeaWorld has issued a detailed rebuttal of claims in the film. When First Mate Starbuck declares to Captain Ahab that "Moby Dick seeks thee not. It is thou, thou, that madly seekest him!" it's likely he was telling an awful and haunting truth. Whether or not the sperm whale that attacked the whaleship Essex on the night of 20 November 1820 did so on purpose, we will never know. But the fascinating and undying rumour of his revenge certainly lives on. The Whale will be shown on BBC One on Sunday 22nd December at 9pm.New York attack: How did Trump do in his terror response? Anthony Zurcher @awzurcher 1 November 2017 Trump on New York terror suspect: 'Send him to Gitmo' As presidential candidate, Donald Trump made being tough on what he called "radical Islamic terror" a central plank of his election bid. How has he responded to the first test of this nature since taking office? In the immediate aftermath of the attack in New York on Tuesday evening, Donald Trump offered a measured reaction. His White House released a statement offering "thoughts and prayers", praising first responders and pledging federal support for the ongoing investigation. The president tweeted that that the perpetrator was a "very sick and deranged person" - the same words he used to describe the man who killed more than 50 people in Las Vegas a month ago. There were hints of what was to come, however. He tweeted about not allowing "ISIS to return, or enter, our country", and another about stepping up his "extreme vetting" border security programme. Then, on Wednesday morning, the dam broke. These are some interesting points about what followed. Partisan swipes The president lashed out against Democratic Senator Chuck Schumer - who represents the state where the attack took place - for supporting an immigration lottery system that gives residency to 50,000 applicants from nations that do not send many of their citizens to the US. He called on Congress to end the Diversity Visa Lottery Program, calling it "a Chuck Schumer beauty", although the system was set up in 1990 law that was passed with broad bipartisan support and signed by Republican President George HW Bush. As Republican Senator Jeff Flake pointed out on Twitter, Mr Schumer was among a bipartisan group who recently tried to change the programme as part of comprehensive immigration reform. Mr Trump also tweeted that Mr Schumer was trying to "import Europes [sic] problems", which prompted a dry response from the senator. New York truck attack: Who is Sayfullo Saipov? "I guess it's not too soon to politicise a tragedy," he tweeted . Trump supporters have been quick to throw the hypocrisy flag on their ideological counterparts as well. "Still waiting for liberal calls for immigration bans/reform like they do every time there's a gun attack," Donald Trump Jr, the president's eldest son, tweeted . "Maybe hungover from Halloween?" Since the president's criticisms, Mr Schumer has countered with his own policy recommendations - urging the president to back away from proposed budget cuts to anti-terrorism programmes. "Our city relies on it to snuff out attacks," he tweeted . It took less than 24 for hours for this latest incident to become drenched in politics. A change of course In the aftermath of the devastating hurricanes that hit the US earlier this year and the Las Vegas attack in September, the White House had cautioned that heated debates about politics and policy should be delayed. "To have any kind of focus on the cause and effect of the storm; versus helping people, or actually facing the effect of the storm, is misplaced," Environmental Protection Agency head Scott Pruitt said in response to a question about climate change was Hurricane Irma headed toward the Florida coast. "There will certainly be a time for that policy discussion to take place, but that's not the place that we're in at this moment" Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said the day after the Nevada mass shooting, the largest in modern US history. When asked why Mr Trump had suggested that his proposed travel ban was necessary shortly after the Orlando nightclub shooting in 2016, Sanders replied that "there's a difference between being a candidate and being the president". When it came to the New York attack, however, President Trump followed the Orlando route. Different attacks, a different response The president's comments on Wednesday  stands in marked contrast to his reaction to other domestic terror attacks that have occurred during his presidency. After a white nationalist in Charlottesville drove a car into a crowd of counter-protesters, killing one, Mr Trump explained that he delayed commenting because "unlike other politicians", he wanted to make sure he knew all the facts before assigning blame. "I don't want to go quickly and just make a statement for the sake of making a political statement," he said. What Trump said versus what I saw - by the BBC's Joel Gunter But the president's critics have pointed out his reticence when attacks involve perpetrators who are not Muslims. He has not spoken at all about a man who was arrested on 6 October for trying to plant a nail bomb at an airport in Asheville, North Carolina. The suspect told police he wanted to "fight a war on US soil". Mr Trump also  held his tongue when another man was arrested on terrorism charges on 19 October for detonating a bomb in a parking lot in Williamsburg, Virginia. For the president, it seems, the New York attack - like the Orlando mass shooting - merited a different response. The Fox factor So what changed between Tuesday night and Wednesday morning? Mr Trump always seems to be at his most rambunctious on Twitter in the morning - in part because he likes to spend the time watching his favourite news programme, Fox & Friends. On Wednesday the show featured guests - including former White House adviser Sebastian Gorka and retired Lt Colonel Tony Shaffer - who repeatedly laid the blame for the New York attacks on US immigration policies they said were backed by Mr Schumer and Democrats. Donald Trump has called Fox & Friends one of his favourite news programmes The president followed the show's lead. In two of his tweets, he included the Fox & Friends Twitter handle. It has become a recurring occurrence during the Trump presidency. The Fox News morning show runs a segment on a controversial topic, and the president quickly fires off tweets on a similar theme. Whether the subject is flag-burning, NFL protests, Confederate monuments, healthcare, immigration, Fox & Friends has become a window into the president's mind and a preview of tweets to come. Wednesday morning was only the latest example.Acid attacks: What should you do to treat a chemical burn? Do you know what to do if someone suffers a chemical burn? These first aid tips may help. 12 July 2017 BBC News EnglandSven Badzak death: Stabbing was 'random attack' by six men 12 February Sven had a lifetime of opportunities in front of him, his mother said An aspiring lawyer was "randomly stabbed to death" by a group of six men as he bought a bagel, police say. Sven Badzak was waiting outside a bagel shop in Kilburn, north-west London, with his 16-year-old friend when the pair were attacked last Saturday. A 19-year-old man and a 17-year-old boy arrested on suspicion of murdering the 22-year-old have been released on bail. The victims did not know their attackers and police do not believe they were robbed, the Met said. Mr Badzak's mother, Jasna, said she believes her son was killed in a random attack. She said her son, who was privately educated at Wetherby and Portland Place schools before attending Roehampton University, had gone to a shop to get orange juice and then to a bagel shop when he was attacked. As he and his friend were chased at around 17:30 GMT, they became separated and Mr Badzak, from Maida Hill, west London, fell to the ground and was stabbed repeatedly. Extra police officers were deployed after the stabbing in Kilburn The 16-year-old also suffered multiple stab injuries but managed to escape into a shop in Willesden Lane. He is currently in a stable condition in hospital. Det Ch Insp Mark Wrigley said the attack was "unprovoked" and "happened very quickly". "It happened very, very quickly and Sven and his young friend were attacked for no reason that we know of at this time. "There were six who attacked the two young men. The two who have been arrested have now been released on bail. "We are still conducting our inquiries to confirm the identity of all of those who took part. This group of young men came to that area and moved together as a group before the offence." Sven Badzak met Boris Johnson when his mother campaigned for him in the 2008 London mayoral election race The group consisted of a mixture of white and black males, he said. Ms Badzak said her son, who had a degree in sociology but wanted to become a lawyer, had met Boris Johnson and other well-known Conservative politicians when he was younger. The Prime Minister said "absolutely everything" is being done to tackle violent crime after Ms Badzak, a consultant and financial analyst, called on him to help ensure her son's killers are caught.Tunisia beach attack: What do we know about the gunman? The Tunisian authorities say they are searching for one or more accomplices in Friday's beach attack in Sousse. It had previously been thought that Seifeddine Rezgui had acted alone. Daniel Sandford reports. 28 June 2015 BBC News UKK-Dogg Bristol race attack: They 'broke my body, but not my heart' 22 January K has appealed for anyone who can help catch his attackers to get in touch with police A young NHS worker seriously injured in a racially aggravated attack said it "broke my body, but didn't break my heart". The 21-year-old musician, who performs under the names K or K-Dogg, had just finished a shift at Bristol's Southmead Hospital when a car was driven at him. Six months later, he has appealed for help in bringing his attackers to justice. He urged anyone with information to "do the courageous thing". K, who has asked for his full name not to be used, had said goodbye to a friend and put his headphones on when a dark blue Honda Accord was driven into him on Monks Park Avenue, at about 16.30 BST on 22 July. He was thrown into the front garden of a house by the impact of the crash and said the occupants of the car shouted racist abuse at him before running off. The 21-year-old is still recovering from his injuries which have left him unable to work for the past six months Four men arrested in connection with the attack remain released under investigation while inquiries, including detailed forensic examinations, continue. The musician is still recovering from his injuries and is being supported by an Avon and Somerset Police family liaison officer and SARI (Stand Against Racism & Inequality). "It is now six months since I survived a racially-aggravated attempted murder. A cowardly, brazen attack carried out in broad daylight," he said. The attackers left their car at the scene "My attackers broke my body. Their violence touched the soul of my family, friends, fellow Bristolians and beyond. "But my attackers didn't break my heart nor Bristol's heart. It's clearly only a matter of time until they are caught." K reiterated his thanks to passers-by who came to his aid immediately after the attack, which left him unable to walk and bleeding profusely from his head. He was treated by his colleagues at Southmead Hospital for a broken leg, nose and cheekbone and also needed plastic surgery. Doctors told him had he not been so physically fit, he would have died at the scene . K is a keen musician, writing and recording his own songs, alongside his job at Southmead Hospital "I would again like to thank all those that came to my aid, administered care, sent me well wishes, donated money - including Bristol's Massive Attack - and those that continue to provide my medical care," said K. "Unfortunately for medical reasons I'm not able to return to my NHS duties just yet. But I'm bouncing back and hope to join them soon. Respect to my NHS colleagues who are fighting Covid. "If you are reading this and can help the police catch my attackers, do the right and courageous thing." Determined to get justice Det Insp Danielle Underwood said: "I and my team are working hard and painstakingly to build a case for charging those responsible for K's horrendous injuries. "We understand the frustration over the time this complex investigation is taking - we feel it too - but we're determined to do this right to get justice for K." Appeals to trace potential witnesses have featured on the BBC's Crimewatch Roadshow and investigators issued CCTV of the suspect vehicle, as well as images of the damage to the car and wall.Velindre Cancer Centre plans 'risky', say clinicians By Owain Evans 10 March The existing Velindre Cancer Centre is based in Whitchurch - and the new facility would be close to this site Plans for a new cancer hospital in Cardiff are "risky" for patients, two experienced clinicians have said. Health Minister Vaughan Gething is expected to announce whether the new £180m Velindre Cancer Centre in Whitchurch will be backed this week. But the clinicians are concerned about the possible number of patient transfers from the centre to a larger hospital and the time that takes. Health bosses said "safety and care is at the heart of everything we do". Velindre NHS Trust has previously said only 30 patients were transferred a year between its current cancer centre and Cardiff's University Hospital of Wales. About 10 were designated as red, the most serious, by the ambulance service. But, following a Freedom of Information (FOI) request, clinicians found the transfers were closer to 100 in recent years. The plans for the new hospital have led to protests and a petition signed by more than 7,500 people , opposed to it being built on the Northern Meadows site in Whitchurch. The dispute over ambulance transfers has raised further concerns about the planned hospital. Protesters said they are not against the new hospital but do not want it built on green open land The clinicians have said they are also concerned Velindre might have played down the seriousness of amber calls. There have been more than 70 red or amber calls each year in recent years, according to the FOI request. The two clinicians - who asked to remain anonymous - discovered that average transfer times for amber calls in 2019 was just under an hour, with another 45 minutes to be transferred to the ward after arriving at Cardiff's University Hospital of Wales. One of the clinicians said: "The amber category are very unwell patients who need to have urgent care. "It's not the eight-minute response for heart attack but they do need help and that help can't be provided at Velindre." They said amber calls can include patients having breathing difficulties, stroke, or major haemorrhage. "So the amber category are very unwell patients who need to have urgent care," added the medic. "The idea that these are routine calls using the 999 system is disingenuous... they're definitely downplaying the figures." The clinicians warned that developments in immunotherapy meant there was a greater risk of patients suffering side effects and claim the new Velindre should be on the site of a larger hospital such as the University Hospital of Wales. Artist's impression of the new Velindre Cancer Centre in Whitchurch They added the Northern Meadows proposal was outdated and the trust should look to build a centre similar to the new Clatterbridge cancer hospital at Wirral . "I'm not just expressing a personal opinion - I'm speaking for 30 clinicians at Velindre, 57 doctors who signed a letter last year and the 163 senior clinicians who recently signed a letter to the health secretary," said one of the clinicians. "All of whom have expressed concerns that building an isolated unit here on the Northern Meadows, without intensive care, high dependency and all the other backup you need for sick patients, is extremely risky." Both clinicians said they have chosen to remain anonymous due to fear of online trolling and harassment. In literature provided to the Senedd ahead of the petitions committee last week, Velindre said that, over the past five years, no serious incidents had been reported to Welsh Government due to preventable deaths on-site relating to a delay in transfer to an acute hospital, or due to the lack of critical care or anaesthetic support onsite. It said: "Velindre Cancer Centre treats some of Wales' most vulnerable patients - their safety and care is at the heart of everything we do and we work closely with our staff and colleagues in university health boards to provide the best cancer services possible for the people of south-east Wales. "The need for a new Velindre Cancer Centre is clear. "The current building cannot sustain high quality patient care indefinitely given the age of the building and the increasing number of cancer diagnoses." The trust said a recent review found co-locating the new cancer centre at the University Hospital of Wales would "not be an option for some time" and action was required now to improved regional cancer services. A Welsh Government spokesperson said: "We have conducted detailed scrutiny of the outline business cases for the new Velindre Cancer Centre and its enabling works. "Welsh ministers are now considering the outcome of this formal process and a decision will be announced in due course."GoDaddy hosted websites down 'in possible hack attack' 11 September 2012 The US firm manages millions of domains Thousands of websites hosted by one of the world's biggest internet domain registrars and web hosts, GoDaddy, were reported down on Monday. "Status Alert: Hey, all. We're aware of the trouble people are having with our site. We're working on it," the website host said . One Twitter feed allegedly linked to Anonymous claimed credit for a hack but the cause is far from clear. GoDaddy said later that most websites were back online. It said on its Twitter account: "We're working out the last few kinks for our site & control centers. No customer data compromised." Earlier, the company, which hosts millions of sites around the world, apologised for the frustration of some of its customers. One Twitter feed, @AnonymousOwn3r, had said that "all servers" of Go Daddy had been taken down . The account of AnonymousOwn3r identifies itself as the "security leader" of the group, but said in subsequent tweets that the attack was carried out alone and not on behalf of the organisation. "it is not Anonymous coletive it's only me don't use Anonymous coletive name on it, just my name," the person said in the feed. Another went : "i'm taking godaddy down bacause well i'd like to test how the cyber security is safe and for more reasons that i can not talk now." 'Busy day' A spokesperson for GoDaddy told the BBC that the firm was directing all inquiries to its @GoDaddy Twitter feed. "You could say it's been a busy day," he said. Rick Ferguson, director of security research at the computer firm, Trend Micro, told the BBC that, while it was a "blunt instrument", a denial-of-service attack was very effective. "What I've seen and heard is it was a DoS attack on the DNS infrastructure," he said. The Domain Name System, in essence, translates the readable computer hostnames into IP addresses. "If it is true, then that has not been constructed to scale up in a sizeable DDos. The GoDaddy site can cope with a sizeable amount of traffic, but its DNS may not have been. "Of course, that's speculation and without confirmation from GoDaddy on the nature of the attack, we don't yet know the full facts," he added. One Twitter feed that has been used to claim credit for Anonymous attacks in the past made reference to the disruption and then said : "Please redirect your godaddy hate to @AnonymousOwn3r says is the 'leader' of Anonymous. #derp Have #lulz with that." Anonymous is a loosely organised collective of hackers and hacking advocates. GoDaddy provides hosting services around the world and said it had $1.1bn (£687m) in sales in 2011. Attacks on major sites under the banner of Anonymous have become much more common. In early June, members of Anonymous staged protests in 16 cities in India against what they said was internet censorship in the country and in April, Anonymous also claimed responsibility for defacing almost 500 websites in China. Lulzsec, an off-shoot of Anonymous, gained notoriety last year with a string of high-profile attacks on websites and businesses such as one on Sony Pictures in which thousands of personal details were published online.Charlie Hebdo attack: Son 'doing fine' after Kouachi siege The father of Lilian Lepere, the man who reportedly hid from the two Charlie Hebdo shooting suspects during a siege in Dammartin-en-Goele in France, has told reporters that he and the family were "doing well". According to media reports, Lepere, an employee of the print works business, took cover from the Cherif and Said Kouachi, who had barricaded themselves in. The brothers were both killed when French police stormed the premises. 10 January 2015 BBC News EuropeHospital: Zanzibar acid attack women doing 'well' Two British women who had acid thrown in their faces in Zanzibar have been described as "well" by doctors treating them at Chelsea and Westminster Hospital, in London. Surgeon Andy Williams told reporters that the pair would be staying at the hospital. Kirstie Trup and Katie Gee, both 18 and from north London, landed at back in the UK at about 13:45 . Police said acid was thrown on the teenagers' faces, chests and hands as they walked through the streets of Stone Town, the old part of the island's capital Zanzibar City, on Wednesday evening. 9 August 2013Oldham rapist jailed for 'vile sex attacks' on Christmas works do 27 September 2016 Police said Costa preyed on his victims A man who raped a woman at a Christmas party at his flat in Greater Manchester has been jailed. Josemar Costa, 28, now of Peterborough, denied the 2014 rape but was found guilty after trial at Manchester Minshull Street Crown Court. He admitted sexually assaulting another woman on the same night. Costa was sentenced to a total of eight years and ordered to sign the sex offenders register for life for what police described as "vile sex attacks". 'Preyed on his victims' Costa, who was living in Cheltenham Street, Oldham, at the time of the attack was also issued with four restraining orders. Police said he was at a nightclub on Roscoe Street, Oldham, for a work-related Christmas party when he attacked his first victim on 4 December. As he left the club he pulled a woman sat on the pavement to her feet, police said. The woman resisted but Costa tried to kiss her and then sexually assaulted her. As the victim's friends stepped in to help her, Costa pushed her to the floor before fleeing. Second victim He went back to his flat with a number of people from the party and continued to drink alcohol, police reported. Costa then carried his second victim, who was chatting to friends, out of the room against her will. He took her into the bathroom and raped her. Det Con Christian Julien, of Greater Manchester Police, said: "Costa preyed on his victims and subjected them to vile sex attacks without giving any thought to the traumatic impact it would have on them. "I know this sentence cannot change what has happened, but this man is now behind bars where he can't target any more innocent women."Bristol protest: Police attacked as 'Kill the Bill' demo turns violent 21 March Protesters clashed with police and threw fireworks into the crowd Protesters have attacked police after thousands of people turned up to a demonstration that officers had "strongly advised" against attending. Officers suffered broken bones and police vans were set alight as angry scenes unfolded in Bristol city centre. Crowds had gathered for the Kill the Bill demonstration in opposition to the Police and Crime Bill . Demonstrators scaled a police station, threw fireworks into the crowd and daubed graffiti on the walls. Home Secretary Priti Patel described the events as "unacceptable". "Thuggery and disorder by a minority will never be tolerated," she said. "Our police officers put themselves in harm's way to protect us all." Avon and Somerset Police said what had started "as a peaceful protest" had been "turned by a small minority into a violent disorder". Two police vehicles were set on fire, damage was caused to a police station, one officer suffered a broken arm and another suffered broken ribs, the force added. Police vehicles were set alight as scene turned ugly A protester smashes the window of Bridewell Police Station Protesters watch a police van burn At the scene By Joanna Prior, BBC News At the beginning of the night the mood was generally lively but not aggressive. There was broken glass across the road and some people had climbed on top of traffic lights but there was no police intervention. The dense crowd eventually splintered, with some moving away to carry on drinking and listen to music. The atmosphere among those who remained became more volatile. Riot police in full protective gear formed a barricade in front of the station, but the officers didn't engage with the protesters at all. They stood by as their shields and vans were daubed with graffiti - some of it profane and some of it hostile towards the police themselves and Home Secretary Priti Patel. Then the atmosphere took a marked turn when the first police vehicle was set on fire. Huge plumes of black smoke rose up from Bridewell Street. A small number of protesters jumped on to the roof of a second police van, thumping on the glass as the officers tried to reverse. Objects were being thrown by protesters into the crowd and still the police did not move from their positions. As well as the police vehicles set on fire, others were smashed up and their tyres let down as the crowd chanted "shame on you". Police said perpetrators would be "identified and brought to justice". It is not clear if any arrests have been made but a spokesman for Avon and Somerset Police said there would be "significant consequences for behaviour such as this". Police in riot gear pushed back against the crowd of thousands in Bristol city centre Protesters scaled the police station roof and threw fireworks into the crowd Fireworks exploded in the middle of the demonstration Avon and Somerset Police Federation chairman Andy Roebuck said: "This is the worst violence in Bristol for many, many years. "It's really unprecedented violence. Between four and six or possibly more officers are seriously injured and some have broken bones. "No-one had any indication it would erupt this way." Bristol mayor Marvin Rees said he recognised "the frustrations" with the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Bill but said that "smashing buildings in our city centre, vandalising vehicles, attacking our police will do nothing to lessen the likelihood of the bill going through". Thangam Debbonaire, shadow housing secretary and MP for Bristol West, added : "The scenes of violence and direct attack on the police in Bristol city centre will distress most people, including anyone who believes in defending the right to peaceful democratic protest." Darren Jones, Labour MP for Bristol North West, tweeted that the scenes in the city were "completely unacceptable". "You don't campaign for the right to peaceful protest by setting police vans on fire or graffitiing buildings," he said. Videos on Twitter showed protesters rocking and kicking a police van while officers on horseback were pushed by the crowd. "Officers are continuing to deal with a smaller number of protesters in Bridewell Street," a police spokesman said earlier. "They've had projectiles thrown at them, including a firework, and have been verbally abused. "This is unacceptable behaviour and those responsible for offences will be identified and brought to justice." Protesters climbed on top of a police van which was later rocked by a crowd of demonstrators Graffiti was daubed on police vehicles and fireworks thrown Campaigners have staged a string of protests against the bill, which would give the police more powers to deal with non-violent demonstrations. Many attendees in Bristol wore face masks and carried placards with slogans such as: "Say no to UK police state", "Freedom to protest is fundamental to democracy", and "Kill the Bill". Avon and Somerset Police had encouraged people to stay away from the demo and attend virtual protests instead. Mass gatherings are currently banned under coronavirus legislation and anyone breaching regulations could be fined, though some MPs have said the law should change to allow protests . This weekend has seen a number of protests and demonstrations, with campaigners gathering in support of various causes. The day started with thousands turning up to protest against the Police and Crime Bill despite mass gatherings being against current lockdown rules The protest began peacefully before later turning violent Under coronavirus legislation, people can only leave their for a small number of permitted reasons and police point out that attending a protest is not among them Have you witnessed the protests? If it is safe to do so please share your experiences by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk . Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also get in touch in the following ways: If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the BBC website to submit your question or comment or you can email us at HaveYourSay@bbc.co.uk . Please include your name, age and location with any submission.Bitcoin exchange halts withdrawals after cyber-attack By Leo Kelion 12 February 2014 A flaw in Bitcoin's software is proving more problematic than had been suggested Bitstamp - one of the world's largest Bitcoin exchanges - has halted withdrawals after coming under cyber-attack. The Slovenia-based firm said the culprits had exploited a bug in the virtual currency's underlying software to carry out the assault. It is the second exchange to suspend operations. Tokyo's MtGox took a similar measure on Friday. A third, Bulgaria's BTC-e, has warned that some transactions may be delayed. Like Bitstamp, it cited a denial-of-service (DoS) attack as the cause. Bitstamp is the second exchange to halt withdrawal of bitcoins The Bitcoin Foundation - a group of developers who maintain and promote the cryptographic code on which the currency relies - said that it was creating workarounds and fixes to tackle the issue. It added that people who had funds stored with the affected exchanges should know that their savings were safe, albeit "tied up" for the time being. "This is a denial-of-service attack; whoever is doing this is not stealing coins, but is succeeding in preventing some transactions from confirming," wrote Gavin Andresen , chief scientist at the foundation. "It's important to note that DoS attacks do not affect people's Bitcoin wallets or funds." Mutated IDs The cause of the problem is an issue called transaction malleability . It involves someone changing the cryptographic code - known as a transaction hash - used to create an ID for the exchange of funds before it is recorded in the blockchain - a database of every transaction carried out in the currency. On Monday, MtGox had suggested that this technique could be used to fool its systems into repeatedly making a payout because it would seem that it had not occurred. The Bitcoin Foundation's initial response was that transaction malleability had been known about since 2011, and that MtGox should have prepared for this when developing its own customised software, which was now proving vulnerable. "This is something that cannot be corrected overnight," wrote Mr Andresen . But while other exchanges are not complaining about the risk of making unauthorised payouts, it appears their systems can become overwhelmed if they receive too many "mutated versions" of the transaction IDs. "This is a denial-of-service attack made possible by some misunderstandings in Bitcoin wallet implementations," said Bitstamp's blog . "These misunderstandings have simple solutions that are being implemented as we speak, and we're confident everything will be back to normal shortly." The Bitcoin Foundation now says its members and developers from a number of exchanges are working "collectively and collaboratively" to tackle the problem and allow withdrawals to resume. 'Wake-up call' One bitcoin is currently trading for about $665 (£402). That is well below the $830 level it was at last Thursday, reflecting investors' concern at the news. However, one expert said the virtual currency should emerge from the attacks more robust than before. Bitcoin was trading for a high as $1,242 last year "Obviously it's a bit more serious than was initially thought - it was originally believed that it was just a problem at MtGox because of the way they had set up their systems," Emily Spaven, editor of the news site Coindesk, told the BBC. "The view from developers is that the exchanges should be processing bitcoin withdrawals again within 48-72 hours, though the wider issue of transaction malleability will take longer to address. "It's been a bit of a wake-up call to get this issue fixed. I suppose they previously thought it wasn't that big a deal."Venezuela crisis: Diplomat to US defects from Maduro 27 January 2019 Colonel José Luis Silva: 'Juan Guaido is the only legitimate president' Venezuela's top military representative to the US has defected from Nicolás Maduro's government. Col José Luis Silva says he now recognises opposition leader Juan Guaidó as president instead. Mr Guaidó declared himself "acting president" on Wednesday, gaining the backing of several countries including the US. Meanwhile, Mr Maduro has rejected demands by European countries to call elections. Several countries including Spain, Germany, France and the UK said on Saturday they would recognise Mr Guaidó as president if elections were not called within eight days. "They should withdraw this ultimatum. Venezuela is not tied to Europe. This is complete insolence," Mr Maduro told CNN Turk. President Maduro was sworn in for a second term earlier this month after an election marred by an opposition boycott and allegations of vote-rigging, leading to large anti-Maduro protests. Why is Col Silva's defection significant? Tens of thousands have protested against Mr Maduro, but, crucially, he has retained the support of the country's military so far. Mr Guaidó's supporters fear he could be arrested The security forces are seen as the key player in this crisis, and Mr Guaidó has asked them to "put themselves on the side of the Venezuelan people". In a video, filmed at the Venezuelan embassy in Washington, Col Silva called for free elections and urged his "brothers in the armed forces of the nation to recognise President Juan Guaidó as the only legitimate president". "The armed forces have a fundamental role in the restoration of the democracy in our country. Please, brothers, do not attack our people," he said. Later, he told Reuters news agency that two other Venezuelan consular officials in the US also recognised Mr Guaidó as leader. Col Silva appealed to the military, saying: "The state has given us weapons to defend our country, not to attack our equals". It is not clear whether more members of the military will be encouraged to defect. Mr Guaidó thanked Col Silva and urged others to join him, while Venezuela's defence ministry said Col Silva was guilty of treason, and tweeted photos of him with the word "traitor" on it. Subordinarse ante los intereses internacionales es un acto de traición y cobardía con la Patria heredada por nuestro Libertador Simón Bolívar, por ello, repudiamos las declaraciones por parte del Cnel. Jose Luis Silva Silva, quien desempeñaba cargo como Agregado Militar en EEUU. pic.twitter.com/VJRqzYz68M — Prensa FANB (@PrensaFANB) January 27, 2019 View original tweet on Twitter Meanwhile, Mr Maduro has backed down over his demand that all US diplomats leave the country. Mr Maduro, accusing Mr Guaidó of attempting a coup, broke off relations with the US on Thursday and ordered US envoys to depart within 72 hours. Washington said it did not recognise his authority to order them out. On Saturday evening, as the deadline was due to expire, Venezuela's foreign ministry said it would withdraw the expulsion order, and instead allow 30 days for the two sides to set up "interest offices" in each others' countries. Interest offices are used when countries do not have formal diplomatic relations, but want to have a basic level of contact to represent their interests. Who supports Maduro? Who's really in charge in Venezuela? The BBC's Paul Adams explains Russia, China, Mexico and Turkey have publicly backed Mr Maduro. At a UN Security Council meeting on Saturday, Russia accused Washington of plotting a coup. However, more than a dozen Latin American countries and Canada have backed Mr Guaidó as president. In Europe, Greece's left-wing ruling party has backed Mr Maduro. Why is Maduro so unpopular? Venezuela is in economic crisis - hyperinflation and shortages of basic essentials has hit its population hard and caused millions to flee. Mr Maduro has faced internal opposition and ongoing international criticism for his human rights record and handling of the economy. He was re-elected to a second term last year - but the elections were controversial, with many opposition candidates barred from running or jailed. Supreme Court judge Christian Zerpa fled to the US in January , telling journalists the election "was not free and competitive".Charlie Hebdo: What do we know about the attackers? A massive manhunt is under way in France after masked gunmen shot dead 12 people - including two police officers - at the offices of the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo in Paris. The BBC's security correspondent Frank Gardner analyses what we know about the gunmen. 7 January 2015 BBC News EuropeGeorge Floyd death: What US police officers think of protests By Boer Deng & Jessica Lussenhop 26 June 2020 Police stand in Washington DC, with a 'Black Lives Matter' sign in the background When massive protests against police brutality broke out across the US in May 2020, Charles Billups was not at all surprised. A black policeman in New York for decades before his retirement, the former officer, 60, tells the BBC: "It's the chickens coming home to roost". "This is something that's been mustering for a while," says Mr Billups. Not for the first time has anger against law enforcement in America spilt out into demands for change - national attempts to reform the country's patchwork of nearly 18,000 police departments have periodically cropped up since the early 20th Century. But outrage over a spate of deaths of black Americans at the hands of police, especially the death of George Floyd, a former club bouncer asphyxiated during an arrest, has spurred a clear bout of soul-searching within police departments themselves. Officers are divided over if and how reforms should come about. For Mr Billups, now chairman of the Grand Council of Guardians, an organisation for African-American law enforcement officers in New York state, the problems lie at the top. 'Old-school thinking' A policy of tough policing put forward in the 1980s, the so-called "broken windows" theory, has long been destructive for relations between minorities and law enforcement, Mr Billups says. Richmond, California police officers stand with anti-racism protesters Only recently have authorities begun to step away from more draconian principles, but Mr Billups thinks that a belief in the efficacy of tough tactics persists among the mostly white, and long-entrenched, leadership of many police departments. "The head is the thinker. The body's going to conform to the head. If the head is not healthy, the body's not going to gain weight. "You gotta change the top," says Mr Billups. "It's a large number of [people who believe in] old-school policing that's still running a lot of these agencies, and the old-school way of thinking just doesn't work no more." Black officers have always known and felt differently, says Terence Hopkins of the Dallas police department. "We happen to be African-American people before we were law enforcement," he says, "so that gives us a different view as opposed to our white counterparts." Surveys bear this out. A 2016 poll of nearly 8,000 US police oficers by the Pew Research think tank found that 69% of black officers believed that the country needed to "continue making changes to give blacks equal rights with whites", compared to just 6% of white officers. The survey, taken in the aftermath of another spate of fatal encounters between police and African-Americans, found that a majority of white and Latino officers believed such events were isolated incidents. Eric Garner's death inspires an unlikely police experiment By contrast, 57% of black officers said they were signs of a broader problem with policing. Polls of police in the wake of the recent fatal encounters have yet to emerge, but anecdotally, more officers today seem to agree that the problem goes beyond individuals and needs a systematic approach. White as well as black officers have supported the protests and have publicly called for reforms. Change v status quo "What's happening now is a movement for police reform in our country," says Mr Hopkins, who has been a police officer for 30 years. Some of the ideas that have become popular in the larger cultural conversation, such as diverting money and duties to fund mental health and social work, he agrees with wholeheartedly, he says. More must be done to recruit minority officers. In Dallas, there is a conscious policy to make the force reflect the demographics of the city it serves. But Mr Hopkins says he also understands why there is resistance to change. Antonio Smith is suing the city of Valdosta, Georgia, and its police department over a violent wrongful arrest "You tend to be protective of your industry. When individuals say, 'you're doing something wrong,' we tend to go the other direction, or not admit our fault in it." Mr Billups agrees that "it's a big split. You have one faction that's saying there's a need for change, and then you have another faction in these departments that want to keep it as status quo." Some police have joined protesters in taking a knee in commemoration of George Floyd Some officers have expressed anger over the backlash on policing and calls to defund or disband departments (though these are not always calls to abolish police, as some have taken them to mean). A viral video circulated in recent weeks of members of the New York Benevolent Association, seen as a traditionally more conservative union for rank-and-file officers, venting at perceived mistreatment of police amid the protests. "Stop treating us like 'animals' and 'thugs'," Mike O'Meara, head of the union, tells reporters. "I am not Derek Chauvin. They are not him," he said referring to the police officer who killed George Floyd in Minneapolis. "Everybody's trying to shame us. The legislators. The press. Everybody's trying to shame us into being embarrassed of our profession," he says. "We've been left out of the conversation. We've been vilified. It's disgusting." On Facebook, Blue Lives Matter - a counter group to Black Lives Matter that advocates for police interest - has over 2.2m endorsers. What happened when a city disbanded its police force Supporters say police deserve sympathy for doing a difficult job, and that "radical" proposals to disband departments would lead to anarchy and lawlessness. Indeed, such reforms can have mixed results. Camden, a working-class town in New Jersey, has been hailed as a model for success after disbanding its troubled police force in 2013, redirecting energies to neighbourhood patrolling. However, in Vallejo, California, outside San Francisco, fatal encounters with police rose dramatically in the years after it disbanded force, in 2008. "It's just really tough," says Robert McCormick, a retired police and parole officer. "Everybody wants a simple answer, but there isn't one." There are many complexities even with reforms that sound reasonable, he points out. For example, getting mental health specialists to deal with issues police are not equipped to deal with - a large chunk of calls Mr McCormick, 72, saw in his decades on the job in the Midwest and Colorado - would seem prudent. But officers would have no way of knowing when they answer an emergency "911" call that mental illness is the issue at hand. With nearly one in three Americans owning a gun, risks for officers can be high. Rather than reducing funds, Mr McCormick thinks, there should be supplemental funds for training and alternative resources for police. Protesters call for spending on police departments to be cut He thinks protections for police do need to remain in place, such as preserving "qualified immunity" - another concept that has come under pressure amid the recent protests. The doctrine shields officers from being held personally liable for violating the constitutional rights of people they arrest. Critics argue that this thwarts attempts to hold officers accountable, but Mr McCormick says it is necessary to protect police who are trying to do their jobs. "It says you can't sue me just for arresting you, just for doing my job," he says. "[The police] are being attacked," he says. "But [on the other hand], it's so damned hard to get rid of a cop who's bad or not doing his job… it's pretty damn near impossible to convict a cop. That's ridiculous." Ultimately, it will be changes that take place within departments themselves that affect long-term results, thinks the Grand Council's Mr Billups. "The key thing now is that there's changes in the department," he says. "You're talking about officers who are black or Latino. They go back to those same neighbourhoods where they're policing. [So] a lot of the young black officers see it a different way." But more importantly, he says, it is that police departments as a whole need to "learn a new language" to evaluate the purpose and priorities of the job. "Departments need to evolve to the 21st Century". Cops Need a New Code Jeremiah Johnson serves as a police sergeant in Connecticut and holds an appointment as a Practitioner in Residence at the University of New Haven It took several days before I could bring myself to watch George Floyd's life agonisingly extinguished beneath the unyielding knee of a Minneapolis police officer. As a sworn police officer, I believe it is my duty to watch and not look away; George Floyd's humanity demands it. His unconscionable death laid bare the deficiencies of American policing, a reality which resonated with cities and communities across the nation. Viral images and video clips documenting protests against racism and brutality have done little to disconfirm that the police are racist and brutal. Calls to re-imagine, defund, or even abolish the institution of policing are amplified through these encounters. A friend from my undergraduate days recently lamented on Facebook that she did not know how to explain the police to her children. Rhetorical or not, I inquired whether she meant "police as they are" or "police as they should be?" Policing is a social institution with an uncertain mandate and mismatched expectations invariably leads to conflict. Reductionist phrases such as "to serve and protect" are of little help as they are ambiguous and easily co-opted. The field of policing desperately needs to do some soul-searching and reconsider what it stands for professionally. Rewriting its code of ethics is a good place to start. The current Law Enforcement Code of Ethics is a product of the mid-20th Century's professional era of policing. It was formally adopted by the International Association of Chiefs of Police in 1957. The document is more than symbolic; many police organisations (including the Minneapolis Police Department) have incorporated the Code of Ethics into their policy manuals and oath of office ceremonies. Police reform often takes place in a patchwork fashion. Changing the Code of Ethics would be unprecedented and wide-reaching. To draft a new Code of Ethics worthy of a democratic society, policing should turn to Hippocrates. Medicine's Hippocratic Oath is commonly summarised as "do no harm". It is the physician's job to examine the patient, diagnose the medical condition underlying presenting symptoms, and prescribe an effective course of treatment. A doctor who only attends to visible symptoms, provides ineffective medicine, or treats in a manner that is ultimately harmful has failed the patient. By these standards, American policing may be guilty of malpractice. A police code of ethics designed around the Hippocratic Oath should incorporate four key themes that are noticeably absent from the present document: evidence-based policing; crime prevention; professional identity; and the sanctity of life.; In the decades following the code's inception, a vast body of scientific evidence has emerged regarding what works in policing and, perhaps more importantly, what does not. This is not an abstract intellectual issue since police interventions directly impact the lives of community members. Ignoring the evidence base in favour of tradition or personal opinion is more than irresponsible; unscientific policing is unethical policing. Second, the Code of Ethics is a product of the crime-control era and is singularly focused on enforcement. The desire to apprehend is dominant in American policing's DNA, yet this orientation must give way to crime prevention. It is the absence of crime and disorder that policing should seek to achieve. Third, the Code of Ethics must repudiate the ideology of the "thin blue line". It must clearly establish that police are first and foremost members of the community, not some separate caste standing in the gap between good and evil. Finally, the Code of Ethics rightly speaks to protecting the weak and innocent while opposing unnecessary force and violence. This does not go far enough. Policing must fundamentally acknowledge the sanctity of life and a duty to protect every person, even individuals who have placed themselves or others in jeopardy. If police must use force, they have an ethical duty to transition and render aid to prevent the loss of life. As George Floyd lay dying, one of the bystanders in the crowd tried to reason with the officers declaring, "Bro, he's human." The appeal fell on deaf ears. Hippocrates viewed the art of medicine as something fundamentally connected with the love of humanity. The very fabric of American policing must change before the same can be said about law enforcement. It's time for a new code.Kill the Bill Bristol protest: More arrests expected 22 March Police officers were hurt during a protest in the centre of Bristol that turned violent Police are scouring an "enormous amount" of footage and have vowed to make more arrests after violence at a Kill the Bill protest in Bristol. Protesters clashed with officers as thousands turned out for the march on Sunday. Eight people have already been arrested after 21 officers were injured. Avon and Somerset Police said the investigation could result in the largest number of images for wanted suspects in the force's history. Earlier, Home Secretary Priti Patel accused some protesters of "thuggery" and Bristol's mayor said those involved in the violence were "selfish". One of the injured officers suffered a punctured lung, with the chairman of the local Police Federation saying the actions of some were "close to attempted murder". Of the eight people arrested so far, six were detained for violent disorder and two for possession of an offensive weapon. Det Ch Supt Carolyn Belafonte said CCTV footage, body-worn camera videos and social media coverage were being studied along with photographs. Avon and Somerset's police and crime commissioner said the acts showed "reckless disregard" of people's lives and safety A dedicated page has also been set up on the Avon and Somerset Police website for people to send footage and pictures in. "From what we've already obtained, we're confident more arrests are imminent," said Det Ch Supt Belafonte. She said forensic evidence, including fingerprints, had been recovered from the scene. "To those who took part in this spree of offending, you can expect a knock at your door in the days or weeks to come - it may come sooner than you think," she added 'Thuggery and disorder' Prime Minister Boris Johnson said people had a right to protest but the violent scenes were "unacceptable". He added: "They should protest peacefully and legally." Speaking in the House of Commons earlier, Home Secretary Priti Patel condemned the protests as "anarchic" and "violent". She said the minority of people who confronted police officers in the city centre on Sunday night had demonstrated "criminal thuggery and disorder" that put lives at risk. "Our exceptional and brave police officers put themselves in harm's way to protect the public. "For them to face the criminal violence against them while upholding the law is completely unacceptable," she added. "My thoughts are with the injured officers and their family." Bristol Mayor Marvin Rees slammed offenders as "selfish" for "living out their revolutionary fantasies". Avon and Somerset Police Chief Constable Andy Marsh said the protest had been "hijacked by extremists", by "people who were determined to commit criminal damage". Police vehicles were set on fire and fireworks were set off in the crowds Mr Marsh said: "There was a hardcore of serious criminals hidden within those 3,000 people - perhaps 400 or 500 people - and we certainly didn't trigger this." Crowds had gathered to peacefully protest in opposition to the new Police and Crime Bill but it went in a "violent direction" outside Bridewell Police Station at about 17:30 GMT, Mr Marsh said. As angry scenes unfolded, demonstrators scaled the station, threw fireworks into the crowd and daubed graffiti on the walls. Mr Marsh said that while it would not have been "practical or possible" to arrest more people on the night, those involved in the violence can expect "very serious consequences". "We will be asking for the people of Bristol to identify these thuggish citizens so we can bring them to justice," he added. Graffiti has been removed from walls By 17:30 there were approximately 300 police officers at the scene. Two officers were injured and treated in hospital, with one suffering a punctured lung and broken ribs, and the other a fractured arm. Both have since been discharged. Twelve police vehicles were also damaged, with two set on fire. It is understood the police operation cost around £1m. Andy Roebuck, chairman of Avon and Somerset Police Federation said: "We had them actually squirting liquid on our visors. "They've turned up with weapons and then tried to set fire to a police vehicle with police officers actually inside it. "That is close to attempted murder of those police officers as far as we are concerned in the Police Federation. "That is the level of violence and determination that these animals have gone to. And this is something we can not tolerate." Analysis: Tom Symonds, BBC Home Affairs Correspondent At times there were as few as 50 police officers, facing 100 or more violent protesters. Horses and dogs were used to great effect, but their numbers have been cut in the last decade. This means that arguably, the police were outnumbered.  To arrest one protester during the pandemic, it currently takes an average of three officers and one vehicle, since suspects have to be kept socially distanced. However, public order commanders know that sending in snatch squads to make arrests also leads to a more violent response. So, instead of clearing the streets, and making arrests, a decision was taken for police to hold their ground, and gather evidence for later investigations. The result has given a dangerous impression.  A feeling of a loss of control which was also a feature of the early stages of the 2011 riots in England. Workers from Bristol Waste spent the morning removing broken glass, debris and offensive graffiti from the streets. Bristol Mayor Marvin Rees said the violence had made people already dealing with inequality in the city less safe and questioned whether the perpetrators were from Bristol or were "protest tourists". He said: "Smashing buildings in our city centre, vandalising vehicles, attacking our police will do nothing to lessen the likelihood of the bill going through. "On the contrary, the lawlessness on show will be used as evidence and promote the need for the bill. "This is a shameful day in an incredible year for Bristol. These people should feel shame." Police riot shields and vans were sprayed with graffiti Sue Mountstevens, Avon and Somerset's police and crime commissioner, said the behaviour was "completely unacceptable". She said: "It's disgraceful these men and women who started their days expecting a normal day of policing have all returned battered and bruised. "These people have shown reckless disregard of the lives and safety of our communities in central Bristol and our officers. 'Cause chaos' "Whether you agree or disagree with the bill, these men and women did not deserve to face the level of violence directed at them. Nothing can justify such actions." University student Rhianna Prewitt, who attended the demonstration, said: "This is a symptom of not allowing organisers to actually properly organise protests and, by doing that, extremists and people who are looking for a riot are going to take advantage to cause chaos. "Also, if the government doesn't want us to protest during the pandemic, why are they pushing through a significant law at this time without public scrutiny?" Protesters clashed with police and threw fireworks into the crowd Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer said the disorder was "inexcusable" and those involved should be identified and "prosecuted where appropriate." He condemned the "lawlessness" by people who were "intent on violence," adding parallels could not be drawn between the protests in London against harassment and violence against women and the scenes in Bristol.Brazil shooting: Max Dixon's 'army skills helped' rescue family 8 August 2017 Eloise Dixon and her family had reportedly ended up in a slum because of a miscommunication A British man's military training helped him get his family to safety after his wife was shot at by a group in a Brazilian slum, his mother said. Eloise Dixon, 46, from Gravesend, was in a car with her husband and children in Angra dos Reis on Sunday when the attack happened , according to reports. Ms Dixon, 46, was shot twice, once in the abdomen, and is now recovering. Max Dixon, 46, a Bromley firefighter and former paratrooper "dealt with the situation calmly," Hazel Dixon said. "He just wanted to get out of it as quickly as possible - to the nearest hospital. "He told me the car was riddled with bullets," she added. The attack occurred in the first week of their family holiday. The couple had been travelling in the car with their three children Isabella, 13, Holly, eight, and seven-year-old Alice. Images shown on Brazilian television show the family's car with a flattened tyre It is believed a language mix-up led the family, from Hayes, south-east London, into the Agua Santa neighbourhood - a coastal resort about 90 miles (145 km) from Rio de Janeiro. Authorities said a group approached the car and told the family to get out, but the Dixons did not understand the request. The group then reportedly opened fire. Ms Dixon said her daughter-in-law, a part-time classroom assistant at a primary school in Hayes, was lucky to be alive. She said the family, who travelled a lot and liked to go to adventurous places, were just one week into a three week holiday when the attack happened. The 46-year-old underwent two hours of surgery and is now in a stable condition waiting to be transferred to a private hospital in Rio de Janeiro. Images of the family's car shows damage to the front seat after the shootingBirmingham bedsit 'frenzied' stabbing suspect hunted 6 October 2020 Keith Wagstaffe was believed to know the victim A man suspected of involvement in a "frenzied" stabbing at a Birmingham bedsit is being hunted by police. Keith Wagstaffe is believed to have "played a part" in the attack in Arden Street, West Midlands Police said. "This was a frenzied attack and the victim has suffered, we believe, seven stab wounds to his body," Det Sgt Simon Hanlon said. Two men have been arrested and bailed over the attack, which happened on 30 September. The 43-year-old victim has been placed in an induced coma in hospital and is in a critical condition, police said. Officers said it was understood several people forced entry into the multi-occupancy property, at about 13:00 BST. 'Targeted attack' Mr Wagstaffe, 29 and of Cookspiece Walk in Stechford, is suspected of attempted murder. Det Sgt Hanlon added: "Our inquiries suggest Mr Wagstaffe knows the victim and that this was a targeted attack. We do not believe anything was stolen from the flat. "We've made good progress with two suspects already arrested and a vehicle we believe used in the attack seized for forensic examination. "If anyone knows where Mr Wagstaffe is then please contact us straight away. Do not approach him, just call us." Follow BBC West Midlands on Facebook , Twitter and Instagram . Send your story ideas to: newsonline.westmidlands@bbc.co.ukChanel Miller: Stanford University scheme projects her words on to assault site By Lauren Turner 30 September 2019 Students at California's Stanford University have used digital technology to show support for prominent sexual assault survivor Chanel Miller. But it comes amid unhappiness at how the university is remembering the attack. Using augmented reality the students projected her words onto the site on campus where she was assaulted in 2015. The area has been turned into a contemplative garden - but there was a disagreement over the choice of words for a plaque and it was never installed. Students fear this means people now don't know what the garden signifies. The Dear Visitor exhibit saw people using iPads and headphones to see and hear the words Ms Miller wrote to attacker Brock Turner in her victim impact statement. It was written under the pseudonym Emily Doe and went viral after being published online. A jury found Turner, then 20, guilty of three charges: sexually assaulting an intoxicated victim, sexually assaulting an unconscious victim and attempting to rape her. Ms Miller was found near a dumpster by two Swedish students. Turner was given a controversially short six-month jail term, of which he served three months. He was placed on probation and remains on the sex offenders' register. There is currently no plaque and no plans to install one after the university rejected the words Ms Miller chose to be used. The creators of Dear Visitor - all students or former students at Stanford - wanted Friday's augmented reality project, followed by a solidarity event, to go some way towards righting that wrong. 'Window to alternative world' Hope Schroeder said: "We want to elevate Chanel Miller's voice in this space as was intended. It's not a replacement but an addition to a physical plaque." She said there were also fears the site was not being used as intended - with beer cans and vape cartridges found in the garden - and that its meaning could be forgotten. The exhibit involved students being given iPads equipped with an augmented reality app to allow them to see what it would look like if a plaque had been installed in the garden. "It gives them a window to an alternative world," she said. "We were able to install digital objects that look like they're there. "We also took the opportunity to interview students about the issue. We thought there was a risk as time goes on, students in five or 10 years could not know what the garden was about. So students' letters can be clicked on as well. We then invite people to write letters of their own." The augmented reality plaque - the final version saw the name Emily Doe replaced with Chanel Miller The Dear Visitor team contacted Ms Miller, whose memoir Know My Name was released this week, to get her go-ahead for the project. "She liked the idea and we received her consent to use her actual voice in the space," added Ms Schoeder. The students also consulted sexual assault experts to make sure the experience would be "thoughtful and informative". Stanford Law School professor Michele Dauber, who led the successful drive to recall Judge Aaron Persky, had also been involved in the creation of the garden. She said the first priority had been safety, describing the dimly-lit area as a "rape trap". But she said that after preventing an attack happening there again, the next goal was to "acknowledge the harm". Stanford had agreed to a plaque, if the words were taken from the victim impact statement. Ms Miller's first and second choices of wording were rejected by the university. They offered their own suggestions but Ms Miller did not feel they were appropriate. One suggestion was "I'm right here, I'm okay, everything's okay, I'm right here" - words Ms Miller spoke to her sister after the assault - but the next paragraph explains what Ms Miller was keeping hidden, and that she was not at all OK. 'Survivors are in this together' Professor Dauber said: "This young woman has been damaged enough. This was literally the least Stanford could do. "With Chanel's book coming out, I think an appropriate reaction by Stanford would be to rethink their decision about the plaque and put it up as they promised. They broke a promise to someone who has been severely harmed." Student Sabrina Medler is a sexual assault survivor in her final year at Stanford who wrote about her own experiences this week, saying reading Chanel Miller's victim impact statement had empowered her . Ms Medler said she often visits the garden and has felt "peace" there. She said: "Survivors have reacted to it differently. I've always found the space comforting. When I'm there I feel a connection to Chanel Miller. It makes me feel like survivors are in this together." But she acknowledged it was also felt to be a reminder of the aftermath of the case, adding that Stanford had failed to do justice to Ms Miller. She has now organised a campus petition asking for Stanford to publicly apologise for not installing a plaque with the words Ms Miller had chosen. A Stanford University spokesman said: "After creating the garden, we worked very hard to get agreement on a physical quote for the space, and we regret that wasn't achievable. "The university wanted to ensure the space would provide a supportive environment for all survivors, not all of whom may have reached the same point of post-traumatic healing, and who might have a range of emotional reactions. "We welcome this student-led initiative that offers the use of augmented reality in the space and provides visitors the agency to engage with the garden and its purpose." The university also said a statement made by Provost Persis Drell in March 2018 still stood, where she explained Stanford's decision. In it, she says it was felt Ms Miller's words "expressed sentiments that would not be supportive in a healing space". She added that the sexual assault had "changed our community forever" and that Stanford was working to "create and nurture a culture where similar events do not happen in future".Hacker tries to poison water supply of Florida city 8 February Officials said "at no time was there a significant adverse effect on the water being treated" A computer hacker gained access to the water system of a city in Florida and tried to pump in a "dangerous" amount of a chemical, officials say. The hacker briefly increased the amount of sodium hydroxide (lye) in Oldsmar's water treatment system, but a worker spotted it and reversed the action. Lye is used in small amounts to control acidity but a large amount could have caused major problems in the water. Oldsmar Mayor Eric Seidel said: "There's a bad actor out there." No arrests have yet been made and it is not known if the hack was done from within the US or outside. A computer controlling Oldsmar's water treatment system was remotely accessed on Friday. A plant operator saw an attempt to access the system in the morning but assumed it was his supervisor, the Tampa Bay Times reported . But another attempt was made early in the afternoon and this time the hacker accessed the treatment software and increased the sodium hydroxide content from 100 parts per million to 11,100 ppm. The operator immediately reduced the level to normal. Sodium hydroxide is the chief ingredient in liquid drain cleaners. It is very corrosive and can cause irritation to the skin and eyes, along with temporary loss of hair. Swallowing it can cause damage to the mouth, throat and stomach and induce vomiting, nausea and diarrhoea. Pinellas County Sheriff Bob Gualtieri said: "I'm not a chemist. But I can tell you what I do know is... if you put that amount of that substance into the drinking water, it's not a good thing." But he added: "At no time was there a significant adverse effect on the water being treated. Importantly, the public was never in danger." The Oldsmar plant provides water to businesses and about 15,000 residents. The remote access programme to the water system has been temporarily disabled. 'Bad actors out there' Analysis by Joe Tidy, cyber reporter Imagine the horror as this worker watched their own mouse cursor being moved around the screen by an invisible hand. Then seeing it click open and adjust the electronic dials to poison the water. Perhaps more terrifying is that this isn't the first time it's happened. In 2016, a security report from Verizon detailed a similar attack on another unnamed US water facility. And in 2020 there were multiple unsuccessful hacks on Israeli water supplies. This latest attack in Florida will do nothing to calm cyber-security experts who've been warning for years that so called "critical national infrastructure" facilities are being targeted. Water, electricity, nuclear plants and transport are being probed for weaknesses all the time not just because of the potential for mass disruption but also because they are often running on out-of-date and vulnerable IT systems. So far all attacks on water supplies have been averted. But as Mayor Seidel put it in his press conference, this is an event that "puts everyone on notice: these types of bad actors are out there and this is happening". Experts have been warning for years that it's not a matter of if, but when, hackers will kill somebodyItalian ambassador to DR Congo killed in UN convoy attack 22 February Luca Attanasio was travelling in a UN convoy in the east of the country Italy's ambassador to the Democratic Republic of Congo has been killed in an attack in the east of the country, its foreign ministry has said. Luca Attanasio, 43, died in hospital on Monday after the United Nations convoy he was travelling in came under fire near Goma, a statement said. The convoy reportedly belonged to the UN's World Food Programme (WFP). An Italian military police officer travelling with the envoy and a Congolese driver were also killed. "It is with deep sadness that the foreign ministry confirms the death, today in Goma, of the Italian ambassador," the ministry's statement said. The attack in North Kivu province is believed to have been an attempted kidnapping, according to officials at the nearby Virunga National Park. What do we know about the attack? Mr Attanasio was a passenger in one of two vehicles travelling about 15km (nine miles) north of Goma when the attack happened on Monday morning. The vehicles were "ambushed by a group of six attackers, who fired warning shots before taking all the passengers into the Virunga National Park", the governor of North Kivu province, Carly Nzanzu, told the BBC. Security forces guard the area where the attack took place on Monday morning "That's when a patrol of Virunga National Park rangers intervened and managed to free four people," he said. "Unfortunately, before they ran away, the assailants shot the ambassador and his bodyguard, and they killed the Congolese driver at the start of the attack," the governor added. Virunga is regarded as one of the most dangerous parks in Africa The WFP said Mr Attanasio was travelling from Goma to visit a "schools programme" in the village of Rutshuru in eastern DR Congo. " The attack... occurred on a road that had previously been cleared for travel without security escorts," the Rome-based agency said in a statement. The two other fatalities were military police officer Vittorio Iacovacci, 30, who had been serving at the embassy since last September, and their Congolese driver, who has been named as Moustapha Milambo in media reports. A number of other passengers were reportedly injured. It is not clear who was behind the attack, but the interior ministry has accused a Hutu rebel group known as the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda (FDLR). Many armed groups are known to operate in and around the park and militias clash regularly in the east of the country, where a large UN force is struggling to keep the peace. The DRC army has deployed troops to help search the area. Questions over apparent security lapse Analysis by Emery Makumeno, BBC News, Kinshasa Mr Attanasio is the first ambassador to be killed in the country since French ambassador Philippe Bernard was shot dead during riots in the capital, Kinshasa, in 1997. Normally, aid convoys travelling in eastern DR Congo are heavily guarded by UN troops, and questions are bound to be asked about the level of security that Mr Attanasio's convoy had. He was travelling in the east - the most unstable part of DR Congo. Many local armed groups - as well as those from Rwanda, Burundi, the Central African Republic (CAR) and Uganda - have established themselves in the region over the last 25 years. The attack highlights the fact that stability to the region will return only if a solution is found to political issues in all these countries. What has the reaction been? Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi issued a statement offering his "deepest condolences", while President Sergio Mattarella condemned the "cowardly attack". Foreign Minister Luigi Di Maio expressed his "great shock and immense sorrow" at the "brutal" killings. "Today Italy mourns the loss of two of its sons and embraces their families," he said, adding: "No effort will be spared to shed light on what happened." DR Congo's Foreign Minister, Marie Tumba Nzeza, said an investigation into the killings was under way. Mr Attanasio had represented Italy in the DR Congo since 2017. He joined the diplomatic service in 2003 and spent time in Morocco and Nigeria. What is the situation in DR Congo? DR Congo was for many years at the centre of a brutal civil war that drew in several neighbouring countries. The conflict led to the loss of some five million lives between 1994 and 2003, with some observers branding it Africa's Great War. But the end of the conflict did not mark an end to the violence. Dozens of militias and rebel groups continue to operate in eastern areas. The UN's peacekeeping mission has been in DR Congo since 1999. It is one of the biggest peacekeeping operations in the world, with more than 17,000 personnel on the ground. Virunga - which stretches across 7,800 sq km (3,000 sq miles) - is one of the most dangerous parks on the continent. In 2018, a ranger was killed and three people - including two British tourists - were kidnapped when their vehicle was ambushed in the Virunga National Park. Those kidnapped were later released. You might also be interested in: Why are people in mineral-rich DR Congo among the world's poorest?Capitol riots: The hunt to identify and arrest the rioters By Tara McKelvey 9 January After the siege on the US Capitol building, the FBI is appealing to the public for help in bringing the assailants to justice. Will this approach work? Trump supporters converged on Capitol Hill on Wednesday to express their rage over Joe Biden's victory in the election, wreaking havoc in Congress. Rioters were pictured vandalising congressional offices, and an aide to Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi, Washington's top Democrat, reported a laptop was stolen. Richard Barnett, a 60-year-old from Gravette, Arkansas, one of the individuals who entered the Capitol building, has been arrested, according to Justice Department officials. He was not hard to find. He appeared in a now-iconic image of the siege: in the photo, he is sitting in Speaker Nancy Pelosi's office, with his feet on a desk. He has been charged with theft of public property, among other offences. A West Virginia lawmaker, Derrick Evans, has also been charged. He posted a video of himself online, standing outside the building with Trump supporters, and then going inside the place. Meanwhile, a man from Florida believed to be the person photographed carrying House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's lectern from the House of Representatives chamber was arrested on Friday, the Miami Herald reported . Adam Christian Johnson, 36, is being held on a federal warrant at a prison in Pinellas County. More than a dozen people have now been charged in offences related to the assault on the Capitol building, said federal law enforcement officials. More arrests are expected in the coming hours and days. The investigation is sweeping and ambitious, and it has enlisted the help of the public. These intruders could be charged with an array of crimes, ranging from trespassing and other relatively minor ones to serious offences involving firearms and explosive devices. They could be sentenced to many years in prison. Which is why the FBI is now asking: do you recognise anyone in this picture? If so, agents want to hear from you. They are conducting a massive effort to track down and arrest the people who broke into the Capitol building on Wednesday. They want everyone in the city, and across the US, to join their crime-solving team. What's the situation so far? The FBI has set up a tip hotline and a website , letting members of the public know how to contact them with information about the people who stormed the US Congress. #FBIWFO is offering a reward of up to $50K for info leading to the location, arrest & conviction of the person(s) responsible for the pipe bombs found in DC on Jan. 6. https://t.co/q9pdw6Rnoy  pic.twitter.com/aQ7Vz4uydO — FBI Washington Field (@FBIWFO) January 8, 2021 View original tweet on Twitter This grassroots tactic is timeworn and effective, say FBI veterans. Posters for the FBI's "Most Wanted Fugitives" were once plastered on the walls of post offices, says Steven Pomerantz, a retired FBI official who previously served as head of the bureau's counterterrorism section. These kind of public-outreach programmes work well, he says. In the mid-1990s, one of these FBI programmes led to the capture of Theodore Kaczynski, a Montana man known as the Unabomber who mailed explosives to individuals, killing three people. FBI officials decided to release to the public a manifesto that he wrote. His brother and sister-in-law recognised his ideas in the text and turned him in. Since then, citizen-sleuths have become more sophisticated. Activist Shaun King, known for his aggressive use of online tools to pursue criminals, went after some of the people who infiltrated the Capitol building. He posted photos of their antics , including the intruder with his feet on Nancy Pelosi's desk. Another man pictured wearing a fur hat and horns, whose photo was shared widely online, was quickly identified as Jake Angeli - a vocal supporter of the QAnon conspiracy theory - who was arrested on Saturday. Phone footage reveals chaotic scenes inside US Capitol However, it takes time to sift through material offered up by members of the public, and sometimes, citizen-sleuths do more harm than good. After the Boston bombings in 2013, online detectives circulated a photo of two people, carrying backpacks and chatting near the Boston marathon. People described them as suspects, even though they had nothing to do with the attacks. Adding to the confusion from the Capitol attack is the proliferation of disinformation about who instigated the violence. Some Trump supporters online have already suggested the rioters were associated with Antifa or Black Lives Matter, though there is no evidence of this. But many Americans are eager to see the mob brought to justice. George Washington University Law Professor Stephen Saltzburg has worked in the criminal division of the US justice department, and he says people here are highly motivated to help the FBI. "People care about democracy," he says. "They want to see people punished. They want to see justice done."Boy, 16, who left Leicestershire PC's nose 'hanging off' sentenced 12 January PC Maddie Hayes needed 17 stitches to her nose after being punched by the teenager A teenage boy who punched a police constable, leaving her nose "hanging off", has been sentenced. PC Maddie Hayes required 17 stitches after the attack in Ashby-de-la-Zouch, Leicestershire, on 12 September. PC Hayes, 24, said she felt "unbelievable pain" after trying to handcuff the teenager. The 16-year-old, from Swadlincote, Derbyshire, was given a 12-month community order and told to pay £600 compensation. PC Hayes, of Leicestershire Police, was assisting with the search of the boy after he had been detained by officers. She said she placed a handcuff around one of the boy's wrists, but he then used his free hand to punch her. Police said PC Hayes needed emergency surgery after sustaining a broken nose and septum, a tear on the left side of her nose as well as swelling and bruising. PC Hayes said her nose was "hanging off" due to the way she had been struck. She also has exposed cartilage in her nostrils as a result of the injuries, the force added. PC Hayes said she joined Leicestershire Police because she wanted to help people PC Hayes was forced to take sick leave from work for three months and is awaiting further surgery as the injuries have left her struggling to breathe properly through her nose. She told the BBC the attack has made her "more determined" to help people. Insp Rich Jackson, police commander for north west Leicestershire, said: "This was a shocking and vicious attack on an officer doing her job to protect others. "The photographs of our officer's awful injuries chilled all who saw them. "Attacks on police officers are simply not acceptable. We must protect our protectors." The boy - who cannot be named for legal reasons - admitted wounding a police constable in December. He was sentenced at Leicester Magistrates' Court on Monday. Follow BBC East Midlands on Facebook , Twitter , or Instagram . Send your story ideas to eastmidsnews@bbc.co.uk .How do Australians respond to shark attacks? By Phil Mercer 25 January 2012 Three attacks in as many weeks have put sharks back on to Australia's front pages. Mercifully, the victims survived - but three maulings is about as many as this country would often see in an entire year. Off a remote beach in Western Australia, a snorkelling guide was injured by a 10-foot (3m) tiger shark, while two surfers were savaged in separate attacks on the continent's heavily populated east coast. Graham Nickisson, a member of the Westpac Rescue Helicopter aircrew, was dispatched to find the "rogue shark" - possibly a bull or juvenile great white - responsible for ripping off part of a board rider's thigh at Redhead Beach, near Newcastle, north of Sydney. What he witnessed from the sky that day over the glittering New South Wales coast was staggering. Never before during a career spanning three decades had he seen the ocean rippling with so many sharks. "This was quite extraordinary to actually see them so close to shore on our city beaches. I've never seen it in all my years.  It was frightening particularly being so close to swimmers. They were certainly unaware the sharks were there," he says. From the air, some appeared to be up to 4m long including one of nature's most menacing creatures, the hammerhead. "We came across a lone surfboard rider and when we had a closer look we spotted a shark in the vicinity of him. "We thankfully got him out of the water as the shark was getting closer and closer, to within about 20ft (6m) of him. We were concerned that we were about to witness a disaster but it all turned out well." An abundance of baitfish, due to cleaner water and more nutrients in the ocean, is one reason why sharks could be attracted in greater numbers to the coast. Swimmers and surfers are almost certainly accidental victims but while attacks off Australia are uncommon - figures of 20 in 2009 and 14 in 2010 were higher than normal - deaths are rare.  On average there's one fatality each year, yet news of close encounters invariably prompts Australians to wonder what is lurking out to sea. Rodney Fox, who was almost killed by a great white shark 40 years ago, believes society is gripped by an "irrational fear" of these shadowy prowlers, many of which are protected in Australian waters. "I've spent my whole life trying to get people to understand that sharks just aren't as bad as people make out," he says from the deck of his boat in South Australia. He still bears the scars of a spectacular brush with death. His wounds required 468 stitches. From left: Conservationist Rodney Fox in his youth, after a shark attack, and today "This huge thump and crash hit me in the chest," says the 71-year-old conservationist and filmmaker. "I stuck my fingers in its eyes and it let go. I pushed it off and grabbed the whole shark in a bear hug so it couldn't bite me and as I was holding on, I realised I was going to drown because I was 10 metres under water." He got to the surface but the shark followed him and swallowed his fish float, which was still attached to him, dragging him under again. Fortunately, the line snapped and he kicked for the surface, where he was rescued by the crew onboard a passing boat that had seen the sea turn red. Australia has a huge coastline that stretches almost 50,000 kilometres and is punctuated by over 10,000 beaches, more than any other nation on Earth. The vast majority of the population - about 85% - live within 50km of the sea. It's not so much blood but salt water that courses through their veins. More people than ever are taking to the ocean to surf, swim and sail but the chances of coming face-to-face with jaws full of flesh-tearing teeth are slim. "There are a small number of attacks each year," says Dermot O'Gorman, the head of conservation group WWF-Australia. "It's much more high-risk to drive your car than to go swimming on an Australian beach." A shark alert was issued at Manly beach in Sydney earlier this month but on an overcast summer's day, surfer Nick, a 22-year-old finance worker from Queensland, was eager to take to the battleship grey waters in search of a decent wave. Sydney's Manly beach recently issued a shark alert "You try not to think about sharks but occasionally you see a shadow in the water," he says. "You see them quickly but they swim away. It's obviously a bit frightening and you lift your legs up off the board but if you're out with other surfers you take your chances. You're out there just to surf, not to worry about sharks." His 23-year-old friend Phil agrees. "There's obviously a threat out there but attacks don't happen that often. It's a risk that most people are willing to take. "For the number of people who go surfing and use the beaches in Australia, I think it's generally pretty safe most of the time." Additional reporting by Sophie RobehmedLabour MP 'taken aback by extent and severity' of abuse 10 February Warrington North MP Charlotte Nichols has opened up about the abuse she has suffered An MP has said she is "horrified" by the "extent and severity" of anti-Semitic and homophobic abuse she has received since being elected. Labour's Charlotte Nichols said she had been increasingly targeted since winning her Warrington North seat at the 2019 general election. Earlier this month, she shared a tweet from a Tory candidate for the town's council which used Nazi terminology. The Conservatives said the woman had been suspended from the party. Ms Nichols, who was promoted to shadow women and equalities minister in November, spoke out after sharing a screenshot of a Twitter exchange from February 2020 with Sharon Thomason, who was later selected as a council candidate by the Conservatives. She had replied to a post from Ms Nichols, making reference to "the Aryan race", a term used by Nazis to refer to a group of people they believed to be superior to other races. Ms Nichols' sharing of the exchange on 3 February prompted Labour's deputy leader Angela Rayner to say she was "horrified that someone who has publicly promoted these views has been selected as a Conservative Party candidate". 'Looking into all allegations' Since being shown the tweet, the Conservatives said Ms Thomason had been "suspended from the party and is no longer a member". "Ms Thomason will no longer be standing as a Conservative candidate in the local elections." Cheshire Police confirmed it was investigating the posts after receiving a third-party report of an offensive social media message. In a letter to Ms Nichols, the Tory co-chairman Amanda Milling MP apologised and stated that the party's complaints team was "looking into all allegations against Warrington Conservatives". 'MPs are human beings' Ms Nichols said the level of abuse she had faced online and in post since becoming an MP was so large, she had had to put "things in place that mean that I don't see the majority of what I get sent". She said while there was an argument to say "a level of abuse in public life is the price we have to pay for doing the job that we do", she had been shocked by attacks on her loved ones. "Dad didn't sign up to that, my ex didn't sign up to it, my sisters didn't sign up to it," she said. "So when they get sent stuff or are talked about by people as a way of getting at me, that's the bit that really hurts because they didn't sign up to this life; I did. "I think people on all sides of the political spectrum can be guilty of forgetting that MPs are human beings with the same sort of feelings, struggles and aspirations as anyone else." She said the abuse had led to her having "a panic button in every room" of her house. "I feel generally safe while out, but reading in black and white that your front door could be easily forced and they are going to give you a new one is shocking. "You wouldn't normally even think about someone setting fire to your door as a risk that you have to mitigate against." Why not follow BBC North West on Facebook , Twitter and Instagram ? You can also send story ideas to northwest.newsonline@bbc.co.ukManchester Arena Inquiry: Policing issues 'identified before attack' 8 February Twenty-two people were killed and hundreds more injured in the 2017 bombing Police were told of shortcomings in a terror response plan months before the Manchester Arena attack, an inquiry has heard. The police inspectorate warned in November 2016 that "an over-reliance" on the officer in charge of the response could see them overwhelmed. Policing experts believe that is what happened after the May 2017 attack. A former inspector told the inquiry Greater Manchester Police (GMP) was urged to "raise its game" at the time. The public inquiry into the atrocity, which killed 22 people as they left an Ariana Grande concert, has been hearing about inspections of GMP around the time of the attack. It has previously heard only one paramedic was in the City Room foyer, where bomber Salman Abedi detonated his device, for the first 40 minutes after the blast and the first fire engine arrived more than two hours after the explosion. 'Apparent vagueness' Andrew Buchan, who worked as an inspector with HM Inspectorate of Constabulary and Fire & Rescue Services, said it was identified in 2016 that GMP's plan was "very tactically focused". But he said it did not go into detail about working with other agencies and had placed "an over-reliance" on the "force duty inspector (FDO) to lead their response to a terrorist attack". The inspectorate's report said the number of tasks the officer would be "expected to perform in all likelihood are so many that it may be some will not be completed or at least in the order expected", the inquiry heard. It said the force had acknowledged that the pressures the officer would be placed under would "bring its own challenges", but the matter was left unresolved. It added that "such apparent vagueness may cause confusion or doubt in a live scenario" and there was a need "to provide the FDO with more immediate support or resources to assist with all the functions expected of that role". The public inquiry into the bombing is considering whether the attack could have been prevented Mr Buchan said the watchdog spoke to four duty inspectors at GMP, who said they had received no counter-terrorism training and "felt ill prepared for that eventuality" but would draw on the experience of other critical incidents. The inquiry heard unarmed officers, who were likely to be the first on the scene, were said to be unaware of GMP's counter-terrorism plans and did not know where to find them. It was told that none of the officers who spoke to the watchdog knew exactly what they would have to do in the event of a terrorist incident. The inquiry heard staff in GMP's control room had received no specific training to help them do their job during a terror attack. Mr Buchan said the force had been told it "needed to raise its game" in testing and training control room and unarmed staff before "the awful time when a terrorist attack actually happens". He said that in November 2016, he personally spoke to a senior GMP officer to share the shortcomings found in their inspection report, which he added were issues found in other forces throughout England and Wales. The final report into UK counter-terrorism policing was never publically published due to national security reasons. The inquiry continues. Why not follow BBC North West on Facebook , Twitter and Instagram ? You can also send story ideas to northwest.newsonline@bbc.co.ukVictims of crimes 're-traumatised' by system By Helen Catt 9 February Tracey Hanson, whose son was stabbed to death, says the treatment of victims has been “inhumane”. When Tracey Hanson's son, Josh, was stabbed to death in an unprovoked attack in 2015, it was the start of a tough journey through the criminal justice system. She said she was "passed from pillar to post" throughout and the impact stays with her today. Experiences like hers - and others who have been victims of crime - is driving a fresh call from Labour for a "Victims' Law" to strengthen their rights. Labour's shadow victims minister, Peter Kyle, said for "too long", those who suffer have been "forgotten and squeezed out" by the system. A spokesman from the Ministry of Justice said a new version of the Victims' Code, coming into force in April, will "boost the rights of victims at every stage of the justice process", and legislation will follow "later this year". Josh was 21 when he was stabbed in a bar in London, which led to what his mum described as a "re-traumatising" experience with the criminal justice system where "you suffer unnecessarily over and over again". She said: "You're turning to the very resources that you've always believed, as a citizen, are there for you to help you at your time of need. "When you're desperately in need of that help and support, and it's not forthcoming. Honestly, it's just absolutely horrific. I can't tell you the number of experiences I've had, but some are just inhumane." Josh Hanson was stabbed in London in 2015 One incident that has stayed with Tracey happened just days after her son's death, when she went to see him in the mortuary. At this traumatising time, she was asked to sign forms deciding what to do with cells and tissue from his body. "I was asked to sign that on the day that I was seeing my son in a mortuary for the first time, seeing my son's body laid out," she said. "Imagine that. I mean, I would have signed my house away, I would have signed anything. "I had no recollection of that experience until three-and-a-half years later when I started to think about getting Josh's clothes." Tracey said she was then told by email that she had signed the forms and his tissue had been destroyed. She had also not been given her own copy of the document. "The mortuary keeps a copy, the coroner, the police keep a copy, but you as a victim, who has signed an extremely important document, you're not even given a copy because there isn't one for you," she said. "Where's the victim's rights in that?" Tracey now helps other victims of crime, alongside campaigning for a change in the law on unduly lenient sentences, as she knows her experience is far from unique. Victims' code All victims of crime have a set of rights set out in the Victims' Code, which includes a right to information and the right to make a victim impact statement. But the Crime Survey of England and Wales found that in 2017-18, only one-in-five victims had heard of it. The code has recently been updated and the new version comes into effect on 1 April 2021. But despite successive Conservative governments pledging to enshrine the rights into law since 2015, legislation has yet to be put to Parliament. Labour's Mr Kyle is increasing the pressure by introducing his own Victims' Bill to Parliament, saying putting the code on a legal footing is the "baseline" - with any law needing to go much further. He said that "too often... there is no link between the victim and the system", which can lead to cases failing, and while it was not the fault of individuals working for criminal justice, it must be addressed. "We have a system that, unfortunately, has focused so much on their part in bringing people to justice that it's forgotten and squeezed out the victims themselves," said the Labour MP. "I think that our criminal justice system will never be able to deliver the justice that's deserved, and make sure that victims feel that justice has been done for them, unless we can reconnect victims to the criminal justice system itself. " Mr Kyle said his bill would introduce "consequences" into the system to make victims' rights "un-ignorable". What would Labour's Victims' Law include? The Conservatives promised again in their manifesto at the 2019 election to introduce a Victims' Law. But Vera Baird QC, the Victims' Commissioner for England and Wales, said the need for a law "really gets more urgent as time goes by". She said there had been "a significant fall in confidence about the criminal justice system from victims", and she saw the results in her office "day to day". Ms Baird added: "We urgently need victims' rights to be put into law. "They are not hard to do and they don't attack the defendant's rights in any way, but a Victims' Law is now critically urgent." 'Build back confidence' Asked about Labour's push for the law, a spokesman for the Ministry of Justice said: "Our new Victims' Code boosts the rights of victims at every stage of the justice process and we will strengthen these further by consulting on legislation later this year. "We are also investing millions in vital support services while recruiting 20,000 more police officers to build back confidence in the justice system." It is also understood the consultation will consider how the role of the Victims' Commissioner can be strengthened further.Gabrielle Friel: Terror accused 'idolised' Californian spree killer 14 December 2020 The trial of Gabrielle Friel is taking place at the High Court in Edinburgh A man accused of terrorism offences felt like the founding father of the incel (involuntary celibate) ideology and idolised him. A jury was told Gabrielle Friel knew of Elliot Rodger and the acts of violence he carried out, had sourced weapons and was planning an attack. But in his closing speech, defence solicitor advocate Brian Gilfedder argued Mr Friel should be acquitted. Mr Friel, 22, denies intending to commit acts of terrorism. At the High Court in Edinburgh, Richard Goddard QC reminded jurors of Mr Friel's words to a social worker on 14 August last year when he said: "I feel like I am Elliot Rodger who was a killer in a school." 'Mass shooting' Mr Goddard said Sarah Drummond had noted he was very fixated and almost idolised Californian spree killer Rodger . The advocate depute said that two days later Mr Friel told psychiatrist Dr Alexander Quinn: "I do want to carry out a mass shooting." He said: "We know when he spoke all those words he had already ordered and taken possession of a crossbow with telescopic sights." Mr Goddard told the jury: "We know Gabrielle Friel had embraced incel ideology, fixated on it." The prosecutor said there was "a host of incriminating circumstances" which amounted to a convincing case against Mr Friel and called on a jury to convict him of two offences under the Terrorism Act which he faces. Mr Goddard said the social worker reported Mr Friel as feeling a lot of anger and being unfairly treated in life. She said he felt rejected and jealous of what others had and felt females were not interested in him. Mr Goddard said jurors might think all of these were incel-related themes. Crossbow and machete Mr Friel had told her he felt like Rodger and was able to tell her about his YouTube video and manifesto. The prosecutor said that Dr Quinn, who saw Mr Friel two days after his meeting with the social worker, said he was very angry with the world and was displaying anger towards women. He felt girls and women had never been interested in him. He said to the psychiatrist: "If I do plan an attack it will be real. I do want to cause a mass shooting." Mr Goddard said Mr Friel had already sourced a high-powered crossbow and a foot-long machete and was looking for the means to carry them into a public place. The prosecutor said he had also made "visit after visit after visit" to online retailers of firearms. 'Provoke the police' Mr Friel, from Edinburgh, is accused of possessing a crossbow, scope, 15 bolts, a machete and a ballistic vest between 1 June and 16 August last year in circumstances giving rise to a reasonable suspicion that it was for a purpose connected with "the commission, preparation or instigation of an act of terrorism" in Edinburgh. He is also accused of, with the intention of committing acts of terrorism, conducting online research in an attempt to acquire a firearm, in relation of spree killing mass murder and  expressing a desire to commit such a murder. He denies the charges. Defence solicitor advocate Brian Gilfedder argued that Mr Friel should be cleared of the charges he faces. He said: "This case has nothing to do with terrorism, nothing to do with advancing an ideology, an incel-related ideology. "My submission is this case is all about the accused wanting to achieve death by extended suicide - to provoke the police to shoot him. That was his purpose, that was his intention." Mr Gilfedder argued that one of the three key factors for a terrorism conviction was that it was committed for the purpose of of advancing a political, racial, religious or ideological cause. He said with Mr Friel the alleged basis was that of the incel ideology but maintained that Crown "fell down" on that factor. The jury will return to consider its deliberations on Tuesday.Ballyboley: Lorry driver may lose sight after bin attack 15 January Fra McCaffrey has been told he will not be able to drive his lorry again The family of a lorry driver whose vehicle was struck by a bin filled with rocks thrown from an overpass say the attack may leave him blind in one eye. Fra McCaffrey was driving to Larne, County Antrim, at about 22:30 GMT on 8 January when the bin was thrown at his lorry . He has since had two operations to remove shattered windscreen glass from his eyes. Now he faces "a long road" to recovery, his son Dan said. "I'm sure he is acting strong, that he is being a dad, being strong and putting on a brave face but deep down you can tell it is definitely hurting him," he told BBC Radio Ulster's Talkback programme. "More or less, he has been basically told it is very, very likely his eyesight is gone. "They can't say 100% it's definitely gone, but they've basically told him he will never drive lorries or HGVS again." Mr McCaffrey, 56, had been driving under the Ballyboley overpass when the bin was thrown at his lorry. Its windscreen shattered upon impact. On a "positive" note, his son says his left eye is unharmed. It happened on the A8 Larne Road last Friday Mr McCaffrey gave up taxi driving to drive lorries when the coronavirus pandemic broke out. His son said he is "not the type of guy to sit about waiting for things to happen". The McCaffrey family are now struggling to come to terms with the attack. Dan said his mother is "being strong for us, the kids, but she is devastated, hurt and sad". That his dad should be attacked while out doing his job is difficult to comprehend, he added. Mr McCaffrey has been driving lorries since the start of the pandemic. "Everybody I have spoken to seems lost for words, there are no words," he said. "They can't think why or how you would even go about an act like this. It's mind-blowing." The bin thrown at his lorry, Dan added, was not filled with "stones or bricks"  but "actual rocks". He is convinced the attack was planned. "Just based on where it is, it seems very unlikely someone would walk a wheelie bin to that point," he said. "It almost seems like it has been taken from somewhere and brought to there in some form of transport, it's been transferred there." Dan said "amazingly" his dad had somehow managed to bring the lorry to a halt on the roadside and flag down help. "He managed to be able to see something like a light coming that he sort of waved down," he said. A young passing driver came to his aid and raised the alarm. 'Disgraceful and reckless' Mr McCaffrey has been praised by police for "miraculously" bringing the lorry to a stop following the moment of impact. PSNI Supt Michael Simpson said the "disgraceful and reckless" attack could have resulted in "multiple fatalities". He said attempted murder "is one of those charges we are considering". Police have appealed for anyone with information to come forward.Who, what, why: What should you do if a grizzly attacks? 7 July 2011 The majority of grizzly attacks occur when a female feels her cubs are threatened An American man has been killed by a grizzly bear while he and his wife were taking a hike in the famed Yellowstone National Park. Bear attacks are often fatal - so what can you do to protect yourself? The couple were said to have surprised the bear while she was with her cubs. The woman - who ran before dropping to the ground - survived the attack after the bear picked her up by her backpack, but then left her alone. While it is not an exact science, most experts say that, in the case of a bear acting in defence, the best response is to either back away slowly, or lie down on the ground and play dead. Nearly all say prevention is better than cure - the best advice may be to give bears a wide berth. If you are not familiar with the area, ask locals where bears are most commonly found, and plan your route accordingly, advises Ted Oakes, producer of the BBC's The Bear Family and Me. "It's really important to not surprise them," Mr Oakes says, so attach bells to your hiking gear and make noise so the animals know you are there. If you are camping, keep food away from the tents, as bears are omnivores and will scavenge for whatever is available. He recommends putting edible goods in a sealable bag and hanging them on a tree about 100 yards fom the campsite. Hikers can also find safety in numbers, he says. Grizzly bears - a subspecies of the brown bear - can weigh up to 1,500 pounds (680kg) and can run at up to 35mph (55 km/h), according to the US Fish and Wildlife Service. They do not attack humans regularly, and will tend to only do so if they are defending their young and are startled, or if hunters surprise them when they are feeding on a carcass. If you do come across one, then walk away slowly, and avoid the temptation to run, Mr Oakes says. Dr Lynn Rogers, founder of the North American Bear Center, offers slightly different advice. If a bear is with cubs then it is a good idea to play dead and clasp your hands around your head at the back of the neck, he says. The aim is to be as non-threatening as possible. He says that grizzlies - in contrast to black bears - evolved in more open landscapes and therefore developed more aggressive tendencies. "With a black bear, it doesn't make much difference [how you respond]. They're not out to get you. It's one in a million that wants to kill you," he says. While fear of an attack should not mar enjoyment of the beautiful scenery, it is worth being prepared, such as by carrying pepper spray, Dr Rogers says. "Pepper spray is easier to carry and much easier to aim than a gun," he argues. And Mr Oakes agrees that such attacks are very rare so it's not worth letting it spoil your trip. "Driving to the park leads to more fatalities than bear attacks." The latest incident was the first such killing in the park in nearly 25 years, according to officials at Yellowstone.West Belfast: Man shot in 'paramilitary-style' attack 12 December 2019 A man has been shot in the legs in a paramilitary-style attack in west Belfast. The incident happened in the Carrigart Avenue area at about 19:40 GMT on Thursday. The victim, in his 20s, suffered gunshot wounds to his legs. His injuries are not understood to be life threatening. The police said those involved in the "despicable attack" did not represent the interests of any community. "Those involved in this type of attack do not represent the interests of any community, nor do they contribute anything to it," said Det Sgt Stephen Gardiner.Man guilty of 'senseless' Sparkbrook flat murder 30 September 2020 Abdillahi Ali Abdillahi was found guilty of murder at Birmingham Crown Court A man has been found guilty of fatally stabbing another man in an unprovoked attack at a flat. Abdillahi Ali Abdillahi, 41, "swung" at Sayed Abuker Mohamed Ahmed with a knife, police said, as he visited friends at a flat on Brighton Road in Birmingham. Mr Ahmed, 34, was pronounced dead at the scene on 16 March. Abdillahi was convicted of murder at Birmingham Crown Court on Tuesday and is due to be sentenced on 9 October. Sayed Abuker Mohamed Ahmed was "very kind and social" his family said "We do not know why Abdallahi attacked Sayed on that day," Det Insp Laura Harrison, from West Midlands Police, said. The investigation found Mr Ahmed was visiting friends at the multi-occupancy property in the Sparkbrook area when he was punched in the face by Abdillahi. Mr Ahmed left the room "baffled", the force said, before Abdillahi entered and was described as "shouting and looking angry" before "swinging" at him with a knife. He collapsed after being stabbed in the chest and leg, while Abdillahi, of Tennyson Road in Small Heath, fled to London where he was arrested two days later. Det Insp Harrison said Mr Ahmed's death was "a truly senseless loss of life". He was remembered by his family as "very kind, social and a leader". Follow BBC West Midlands on Facebook , Twitter and Instagram . Send your story ideas to: newsonline.westmidlands@bbc.co.ukArdoyne shooting a 'savage attack', say PSNI 16 February 2020 A man shot in the leg in north Belfast on Saturday night was the victim of a "savage attack", police have said. The man in his 30s was dragged into a house in Ardglen Place, Ardoyne, and attacked by two masked men. A woman and four children under the age of 16 were in the house during the attack. "There is no doubt the merciless actions of the thugs responsible will have left them all traumatised," said Det Insp Andrew George. Police said the man was walking on Jamaica Road at about 22:40 GMT when he was approached by two men. They took him to the house in the Ardglen Place and shot in the thigh. The man was taken to hospital. "Those who are involved in these attacks do not represent the interests of this community, nor do they contribute anything to it," said Det Insp Andrew George.Vienna shooting: Gunman hunted after deadly 'terror' attack 3 November 2020 A large-scale security operation is ongoing Gunmen armed with rifles have opened fire in six different locations in central Vienna, killing three people and wounding several more, police say. Austrian Chancellor Sebastian Kurz called it a "repulsive terror attack" and said one gunman was also killed. Police were searching for at least one attacker who was still at large, the interior minister said. The shootings took place near Vienna's central synagogue but it is not yet clear if that was the target. The city's police chief said two men and a woman were killed. At least a dozen other people were wounded, officials said. The attack happened just hours before Austria imposed new national restrictions to try to stem rising cases of coronavirus. Many people were out enjoying bars and restaurants which are now closed until the end of November. European leaders strongly condemned the shooting. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said he was "deeply shocked by the terrible attacks". What do we know about the attack? Police said the incident began at about 20:00 (19:00 GMT) on Monday, near the Seitenstettengasse synagogue, when a heavily armed man opened fire on people outside cafes and restaurants. Members of the special forces quickly arrived at the scene. One policeman suffered a gunshot wound before other officers shot the perpetrator, who was armed with an automatic rifle, a pistol and a machete. Jewish community leader Oskar Deutsch tweeted that the synagogue was closed at the time the attack began. Police sealed off streets near Schwedenplatz in Vienna An officer guarding the synagogue was among the wounded, newspaper Kronen Zeitung reported. It was not immediately clear how many attackers took part in the shooting. Austrian media said one person had been arrested, citing the interior ministry. Footage posted on social media showed people running through the streets as gunshots rang out. Witness Chris Zhao was in a nearby restaurant when the shooting started. He told the BBC: "We heard noises that sounded like firecrackers. We heard about 20 to 30 and we thought that to be actually gunfire. We saw the ambulances... lining up. There were victims. Sadly, we also saw a body lying down the street next to us." The shooting began at about 20:00 local time As a major anti-terror operation swung into action, police urged people to avoid the area and not to use public transport. Roadblocks were set up around the city centre. Police in the neighbouring Czech Republic said they were carrying out random checks on the border with Austria amid fears that the gunman might head in that direction. Interior Minister Karl Nehammer said the attacker still at large was "heavily armed and dangerous". He told a news conference that children in Vienna would not be expected to attend school on Tuesday. What has the reaction been? On Twitter, Mr Kurz said "we are experiencing difficult hours in our republic", adding that the army would take over the security of major buildings in Vienna. "Our police will act decisively against the perpetrators of this hideous terrorist attack. We will never allow ourselves to be intimidated by terrorism," he said. This man raised his hands as police checked his identity during their search for the gunmen A number of people have been taken to hospital, including some with serious injuries Austria had until now been spared the sort of attacks that have hit other European countries. Leaders across the region condemned the shooting, with French President Emmanuel Macron saying that Europe must not "give up" in the face of attacks. "We the French people share the shock and grief of the Austrian people, struck this evening by an attack in the heart of their capital, Vienna. After France, a friend of ours is attacked. This is our Europe. Our enemies must know who they are dealing with," he said. Three people died in a knife attack in a church in the French city of Nice last week in what Mr Macron said was an "Islamist terrorist attack". The UK prime minister also said the country's "thoughts are with the people of Austria - we stand united with you against terror" while Home Secretary Priti Patel said "we stand ready to support in any way we can". European Council President Charles Michel called it a cowardly act that violated life and human values. Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte called the shooting "a heinous act" and expressed "solidarity" with Austria.CES 2021: Microsoft's Brad Smith slams SolarWinds 'indiscriminate assault' 13 January Brad Smith presented Microsoft's first CES keynote speech since 2012 Microsoft's president has called the SolarWinds hack an "mass indiscriminate global assault" that should be a wake-up call to cyber-defenders. Brad Smith was making a keynote speech at the CES technology trade show. Earlier, it emerged President-elect Joe Biden had created a new post for a former National Security Agency official to help determine the US response to the attack. Anne Neuberger had specialised in operations against Russia. Pre-emptive strike Plans to appoint her to the role of deputy national security adviser for cyber-security within the National Security Council were first reported by Politico and have now been confirmed by the New York Times . The NYT said she had run the NSA's Russia Small Group, responsible for a pre-emptive strike on Kremlin operatives in 2018. She is currently head of the agency's Cybersecurity Directorate. US intelligence agencies believe Russia was behind the SolarWinds attack, which compromised email accounts at the US Department of Justice as well as giving the perpetrators access to the systems of government agencies, businesses and other organisations worldwide. The full extent of the attack has yet to emerge. The Kremlin has denied involvement. 'Mass assault' SolarWinds sells a widely used network monitoring tool that was altered to provide the hackers with a backdoor. Microsoft was among the victims and has confirmed some of its source code - the normally inaccessible instructions behind its software - had been accessed. "Governments have spied on each other for centuries, it would be naive to think or even ask them to stop," said Mr Smith in his keynote. "But we've long lived in a world where there were norms and rules that created expectations about what was appropriate and what was not. "And what happened with SolarWinds was not. "Why? Because this wasn't a case of one nation simply trying to spy on or hack its way into a computer network of another. "It was a mass indiscriminate global assault on the technology supply chain that all of us are responsible for protecting. "It is a danger that the world cannot afford." Covid crisis Security experts needed to learn one of the lessons of the 11 September 2001 terror attacks, which had exposed how different US government agencies had failed to share threat information, Mr Smith said. "We need to move, as the 9/11 Commission said, from a culture where people only gave others information when they had a need to know," he said. "And in the words of that commission, change the culture so that people feel a need to share." Mr Smith also said there was a greater need to work together to tackle attacks linked to the Covid crisis. "We have lived through the biggest pandemic in a century," he said. "And what did some people use that pandemic to do? "To launch cyber-attacks against hospitals, against the public health sector, against the World Health Organization, against the first line of critical responders. "This too should be off limits." Ms Neuberger led efforts to protect the US's 2018 mid-term elections Ms Neuberger will now be responsible for trying to persuade US agencies and the country's wider cyber-security sector to work together against such threats. In her previous role, she coordinated the response of US government agencies to a flaw her team discovered suspected Russian hackers were using. "It was really great to see five different cyber-security entities using that to identify other Russian intelligence infrastructure and then take that down," she told CBS News in August . Last month, Mr Biden said once the extent of the damage the SolarWinds hack had caused was better known, the US would probably "respond in kind". There will be many in the cyber-security industry who nodded along enthusiastically with Brad Smith. The SolarWinds hack has stunned and terrified the sector - particularly those who make and sell software to protect us from hacks. The last few weeks have been a nightmare scenario playing out in slow motion as more and more details of the scope and depth of the intrusion have been drip-fed to the public. For the intelligence community though, at least in private, it's more of a case of: "Why didn't we think of that?" All nations hack each other and supply chain attacks like this  -albeit not as successful - have been used in the past for spying or disruption. Clearly the Biden administration is preparing to respond in some way. But in truth, aside from perhaps a public naming and shaming of the hackers, there is little it can do directly to the perpetrators involved. What happens behind closed doors is far more significant as cyber-defences will need to be rebuilt and potential offensive retaliation planned.Ticketmaster fined £1.25m over payment data breach 13 November 2020 Ticketmaster UK has been fined £1.25m for failing to keep its customers' personal data secure. The fine was issued by the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) following a cyber-attack on the Ticketmaster website in 2018. The ICO said personal information and payment details had potentially been stolen from more than nine million customers in Europe. Ticketmaster said it would appeal against the ruling. An investigation found a vulnerability in a third-party chatbot built by Inbenta Technologies, which Ticketmaster had installed on its online payments page. A cyber-attacker was able to use the chatbot to access customer payment details. Following the breach, 60,000 Barclays bank customers were victims of fraud. Online bank Monzo had to replace 6,000 payment cards due to fraud. The ICO said Monzo, the Commonwealth Bank of Australia, Barclaycard, Mastercard and American Express had all warned Ticketmaster of suspected fraud. But Ticketmaster took nine weeks to start monitoring activity on its payments page, according to the ICO. Privacy and trust "Ticketmaster should have done more to reduce the risk of a cyber-attack. Its failure to do so meant that millions of people in the UK and Europe were exposed to potential fraud," said James Dipple-Johnstone, deputy commissioner at the ICO . In a statement, Ticketmaster said: "Ticketmaster takes fans' data privacy and trust very seriously. "Since Inbenta Technologies was breached in 2018, we have offered our full cooperation to the ICO. We plan to appeal [against] today's announcement." Law firm Keller Lenkner said it was pursuing legal action against Ticketmaster on behalf of thousands of fraud victims. "While several banks tried to alert Ticketmaster of potential fraud, it took an unacceptable nine weeks for action to be taken, exposing an estimated 1.5 million UK customers," said Kingsley Hayes, the firm's head of cyber-crime.TV historian rejects 'nonsense' over keeping statues By Sean Coughlan 2 February TV historian David Olusoga claims it is "palpable nonsense" to say that removing controversial statues "somehow impoverishes history". Prof Olusoga says statues, such as those of slave traders, are not useful ways of teaching history or explaining the values of previous eras. Instead the historian argues they are a continuing public "validation" of people who did "terrible things". Prof Olusoga is to be an online school teacher himself this week. Pupils in the lockdown will be able to watch Prof Olusoga explaining the importance of the census to historians - ahead of the national census in March - and looking at how it can reveal changes of populations and hidden stories. At school with Gazza The University of Manchester professor recently revealed one of his own hidden histories - that he had been at primary school in Gateshead with Paul Gascoigne and the former footballer had rescued Prof Olusoga and his sister from racist bullying. The TV presenter, who had been born in Nigeria but moved to a council estate in north- east England, says the prejudice he faced in school was part of the "Darwinian world of the 1970s playground". Marcus Rashford faces the social media version of the prejudice of 1970s playgrounds, says the historian But the historian still sees its continuation in the abuse aimed at black footballers such as Marcus Rashford . "Racism in football just found a new outlet in the world of social media. If you look under that rock, it's there all the time. "Marcus, because he so high profile and because we love to attack people who are doing good in this country, for reasons I've never quite understood, is the focus at the moment. But it's constant, it's always there," says the historian and author. His lesson about the census, made with the Office for National Statistics, is about the "lascars", sailors recruited from Asia to work on British ships, who often faced tough conditions for lower pay than their white counterparts. They were at the centre of a trading empire that was "incredibly complicated, diverse and also unfair". Facing up to slavery He says studying the British empire, in its strengths and weaknesses, is "absolutely critical" to understanding present-day Britain - in terms of the "economy, culture, cuisine, as well the people who are living here". But when it comes to issues such as examining links with the slave trade, he says there is a reluctance and a push towards "distraction and deflection" and "various ways of saying 'We don't want to talk about that'." David Olusoga won a Bafta award for his programme Britain's Forgotten Slave Owners He argues that debates about statues - such as the statue to slave trader Edward Colston that was pushed into the harbour in Bristol - should face up to the historical evidence of who is being commemorated. Communities Secretary Robert Jenrick recently promised more safeguards to monuments, saying they are "almost always best explained and contextualised, not taken and hidden away ". "What has stood for generations should be considered thoughtfully, not removed on a whim or at the behest of a baying mob," said Mr Jenrick. Prof Olusoga says there has been particular hostility to suggestions there were enslaved black people in 18th Century Britain, as well as in the colonies. This seems to make people deeply "uncomfortable", says the presenter of the A House Through Time TV series. "I think that's because we've created a moral firewall between what happened in Britain and what happened in the empire - with the idea that what happened in the empire doesn't really count." Missing history Prof Olusoga also has concerns for future historians - and digital gaps in the historical record. He says the way politicians and decision-makers use messaging services like WhatsApp to share their private thoughts could leave future historians with much less understanding about how policies are being made. Historians should be "enormously worried" about "politicians finding ways of not leaving records of their decisions in their debates", says Prof Olusoga. "That's fundamental to the workings of democracy." He says written memos, notes, letters and emails have been ways into the thinking of politicians behind the scenes, that will not be available for an era of private, unrecorded messages. "One of the most interesting things, if you study Churchill, is his notes in the margin," he says. "I think politicians need to leave a record of their deliberations and their debates that lead them to the decisions they made - so they can be held accountable by historians." Prof Olusoga's video lesson, Equality, representation and the census, part of the Census 2021 Let's Count primary school programme, will be on the Census 2021 YouTube channel, 11:00, 4 February.Firefighters and police attacked by fireworks 6 November 2020 Firefighters were attacked as they attended out-of-control bonfires on Thursday night, the fire service has said. There were no public displays for this year's Bonfire Night due to firebreak restrictions, but South Wales Fire and Rescue said it had been "an extremely busy night". Operators dealt with more than 40 bonfires across south Wales. There were four separate attacks on fire crews, but no-one was injured. Firefighters from Welshpool were attacked with fireworks after being called to a bonfire there that was out of control. The same thing happened when Neath firefighters went to a rubbish fire in Briton Ferry. Both were reported to police. Mid and West Wales Fire and Rescue Service area manager, Simon Jenkins, said: "I am saddened and appalled by these incidents. Our firefighters have been attacked for only doing their job. "Our firefighters are ready to respond at a moment's notice and often place their lives at risk in order to save the lives of others and protect the communities that they serve." He said the service had a zero-tolerance approach to attacks. 'Disappointed and disgusted' Police officers attending incidents were also targeted. Ch Supt Tom Harding of Gwent Police tweeted there were "numerous reports of fireworks being fired at officers". "Absolutely disgusted by this behaviour while officers are working incredibly hard to reduce the impact of coronavirus on our community! We will seek to identify this tiny minority and put them before the courts!" he tweeted. Just had numerous reports of fireworks being fired at officers! Absolutely disgusted by this behaviour while officers are working incredibly hard to reduce the impact of coronavirus on our community! We will seek to identify this tiny minority and put them before the courts! pic.twitter.com/AY6flmEbMI — Chief Superintendent Tom Harding (@CSuptHarding) November 5, 2020 View original tweet on Twitter South Wales Police said that a 14-year-old in Cardiff was arrested for "discharging a firework into a shop causing items to be damaged". Dean Loader, head of community safety and partnerships at South Wales Fire and Rescue Service, told Radio Wales Breakfast: "Our fire control operators were extremely busy taking calls from the public and giving advice where necessary." He added the majority of callouts were a mixture of garden bonfires that had got out of control and bonfires on waste ground and common land. The attacks on the firefighters were "a mix of verbal abuse, but also occasions where we had missiles, projectiles thrown at firefighters," he said. "It's not acceptable."Viewpoint: Global media's Nigeria abductions coverage 'wrong' 13 January The school in north-west Nigeria was targeted in December In our series of letters from African writers, Nigerian novelist Adaobi Tricia Nwaubani criticises international media coverage of the abduction of schoolchildren in Nigeria - from that of the "Chibok girls" in 2014 to that of the "Kankara boys" last month. The frenzied journalism that followed the 2014 abduction by militant Islamist group Boko Haram of more than 200 girls from their school in Chibok, north-east Nigeria, may have been well-meaning but it led to some unfortunate outcomes. Prior to the Chibok incident, Boko Haram leader Abubakar Shekau was just a fringe figure that Nigerians saw on TV once in a while. When he stabbed at the camera with his fingers and guffawed wildly while threatening everyone from Nigeria's then-President Goodluck Jonathan to the US president at the time, Barack Obama, with death and destruction, many of us wondered: Who did this unkempt man really think he was? But, in the aftermath of Chibok media organisations around the world broadcast and rebroadcast Shekau's slightest remark. And he kept them supplied with material, such as videos of the kidnapped schoolgirls whom he promised to sell. Some of the Chibok victims met President Muhammadu Buhari after they were freed in 2017 Those who were abducted have subsequently described how the militants who held them captive revelled in any news about the incident. The Chibok coverage inflated Shekau's value as a media commodity, making it increasingly rewarding to keep him on the airwaves. It also distorted the story itself. Despite the way it was covered by the international media, the Chibok kidnappings had nothing to do with "an attack on girls' education", rather it was banditry gone wrong. When they were released after more than two years in Boko Haram captivity, some of those held described how the militants who attacked their school were simply on a mission to loot and steal. 'Militants build a global brand' After emptying out the school's storeroom of food, they were then left with the problem of what to do with the students and began arguing. One suggested that that they lock the girls in a dormitory and set them on fire. Another suggested that they use the girls to gain access to their parents' homes nearby and then steal some more food. Eventually, one man came up with the idea that would lead to infamy: "Let us take them to Shekau. He will know what to do." The Chibok kidnapping sparked a global social media campaign that included then-US First Lady Michelle Obama This same account was recorded in a report by New York-based group Human Rights Watch based on interviews with some of the 57 students who managed to escape on the night of the kidnapping by jumping off the trucks used to ferry them away. Although published a few months after the incident, little attention was paid to that detail. Determined to make the Boko Haram attacks about the irresistible theme of terrorists targeting female education, some media outlets ignored any thread that did not fit this narrative. Just a few weeks before the Chibok incident, Boko Haram had attacked a school in the north-east town of Burni Yadi and allowed female students to flee before slaughtering 40 boys in their dormitory. The Burni Yadi incident attracted little media attention until after the Chibok kidnappings, but this additional knowledge did nothing to sway the direction of reporting. In many cases the media insisted on viewing the Chibok incident through the lens of gender violence, unwittingly providing Boko Haram with the guidance they needed to build their global brand. Boko Haram's use of women as suicide bombers skyrocketed after the Chibok kidnappings, according to a 2017 report by Combating Terrorism Center at West Point and Yale University, suggesting that the group adopted the tactic to grab headlines and elicit shock and awe. It soon became the first terror group in history to use more female suicide bombers than male, sending at least 80 women to their deaths in 2017 alone. "Through the global response to the Chibok abductions, the insurgents learned the potent symbolic value of young female bodies... that using them as bombers would attract attention," said Hilary Matfess, co-author of the report. 'Celebrity monster' In February 2018, another 110 girls were kidnapped by Boko Haram from their school in the north-east town of Dapchi. In the past few years, the government of President Muhammadu Buhari has severely curtailed Boko Haram's impact in north-east Nigeria. Its attacks are much fewer, their hold on international headlines lasting for hours rather than what used to be days or months. But another security crisis has risen elsewhere. Gunmen, popularly referred to by government officials and local media as "bandits", have been terrorising north-west Nigeria with robberies and kidnappings. Politicians, entrepreneurs, commuters and even schoolchildren have been kidnapped at various times and released after a ransom was paid, although not on the scale seen in December when more than 300 boys were abducted from their boarding school on the outskirts of Kankara town last month. Abdulhadi Abubaka described to the BBC last month how he managed to escape the mass kidnapping at his school near Kankara Nigerian security agents and officials of the Kankara community stated that the boys were taken by bandits. But when the international media swooped in and amplified the apparent link to the Chibok incident of more than six years before, Shekau must have seen an opportunity. A whole three days after the Kankara kidnapping, Boko Haram said it was behind the attack. And, once again, many international outlets presented their platforms for this celebrity monster to dance and display. And, in the process, ran wild with a faulty narrative, ignoring all evidence to the contrary. 'Shekau's megalomaniac commentary' The numerous headlines that unquestioningly attributed the Kankara kidnappings to Boko Haram failed to consider by what miracle the group had expanded from its decimated operations in the north-east to the north-west, two regions that are vast and separate. Not even in its prime did Boko Haram brazenly operate in the north-west. The most the militants achieved was a few, albeit deadly, suicide bomb attacks. In a similar manner by which he fanned his popularity in 2014, Shekau fed the media with megalomaniac commentary and a video allegedly of the Kankara boys. Local media, while worried about the increasing insecurity in Nigeria, was more sceptical about the Boko Haram angle. When Nigeria's Cable newspaper took the time to show the video to some of the parents, many of whom do not have internet facilities and so had to rely on secondary sources to view it, they described the recording as fake. "Why are they playing tricks on us?" the parents asked. "This video is not genuine. It does not show our children." Nevertheless, the voices of the parents were drowned in the sea of global media coverage, which appeared unbending in the determination to connect this incident with Chibok. Students left their footwear behind in the scramble that followed the attack in Kankara Some international security experts suggested that while direct Boko Haram involvement seems to have been discounted, Boko Haram training, help and encouragement were involved. Many Nigerians believe that Boko Haram took interest only after the international media covered the story. The government insisted no ransom was paid to the kidnappers, who it continued to describe as "bandits". Media coverage of such heinous acts is important: governments need to be encouraged to act, victims need to be remembered and memorialised and the public needs to be warned. But all this can be done without inspiring more criminals and without providing them tutorials. More Letters from Africa: Follow us on Twitter @BBCAfrica , on Facebook at BBC Africa or on Instagram at bbcafricaIndian Prime Minister Modi Twitter account hacked 3 September 2020 Twitter has said that an account for the personal website of Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been hacked. A series of tweets were sent from the account asking followers to donate cryptocurrency to a relief fund. Twitter said it was aware of the activity and had taken steps to secure the compromised account. This is the latest high-profile Twitter security breach after similar attacks in July on US presidential hopeful Joe Biden and Tesla founder Elon Musk. The account, with more than 2.5m followers, is the official Twitter handle for Mr Modi's personal website. His personal Twitter account, which was unaffected by this incident, has more than 61m followers. "We are actively investigating the situation. At this time, we are not aware of additional accounts being impacted," a Twitter spokeswoman told the BBC in an emailed statement. The tweets, which have now been taken down, asked followers to donate cryptocurrency to the PM National Relief Fund. Bitcoin explained: How do crypto-currencies work? Celebrity attacks Less than two months ago Twitter said 130 accounts had been targeted in a major cyber-attack of celebrity accounts. But only a "small subset" of those 130 accounts had control seized by the attacker. The security breach saw accounts including those of Barack Obama, Elon Musk, Kanye West and Bill Gates tweet a Bitcoin scam to millions of followers. The FBI was called in to investigate. The apparent scam spread to mainstream celebrity accounts such as Kim Kardashian West and those of corporations Apple and Uber. Attackers were able to bypass the accounts' security because they had gained access to Twitter's own internal administration tools. Twitter said: "Since the attack, we've significantly limited access to our internal tools and systems to ensure ongoing account security while we complete our investigation." Despite it being obvious to many that it was a scam, the hackers received hundreds of transfers, worth more than $100,000 (£75,000). Cryptocurrencies are extremely hard to trace and the account the cyber-criminals used had quickly been emptied.Dorothy Woolmer: Woman, 89, 'raped and murdered' by burglar 3 February 2020 Dorothy Woolmer has been described as a wonderful woman who was full of life An 89-year-old woman was raped and murdered in her bed by a burglar looking for money, a jury has heard. Dorothy Woolmer was found dead at her home in Waltheof Gardens, Tottenham, north London on 5 August last year. Her body had severe injuries to her head and groin, the Old Bailey heard. Reece Dempster, 23, from Haringey, has pleaded guilty to manslaughter and stealing a purse but denies murder, one count of rape and two counts of sexual assault. The court heard Ms Woolmer died as the result of "multiple blunt trauma injuries". She had been widowed in 2017, after 64 years of marriage, was 4ft 11in (150cm) tall and weighed less than eight stone (51kg) at the time of her death. Mr Dempster spent around seven hours in Mrs Woolmer's home after breaking in through a back door on the night of 3 August, the prosecution said. It was claimed he had been "casing" the house for several days and knew it was occupied by a vulnerable older person as he had "been there once before to do some gardening". Reece Dempster pleaded guilty to manslaughter and stealing Ms Woolmer's purse, but denies murder, rape and two counts of sexual assault Prosecutor Anthony Orchard QC said: "CCTV evidence that evening indicates he may have been drinking, but he clearly knew what he was doing. "He attacked her, battering her about the head numerous times, probably because he wanted to know where the money was kept, before sexually assaulting her." Mr Dempster, who is 6ft 3in (190cm) tall, fled the scene the following morning, just before 06:00 GMT, and went to his father's house nearby. The court heard Mr Dempster was seen on CCTV to vomit at least three times upon leaving the property. Judge Mr Justice Edis warned jurors the case would involve "some very sad and some very disturbing evidence". The trial continues.Belfast: Motive for Short Strand murder bid investigated By Julian O'Neill 27 January 2020 Police officers carried out enquiries in Short Strand on Sunday Police are continuing to investigate a motive for the attempted murder of a republican in east Belfast. The victim, named locally as Pat Fitzpatrick, who is in his 50s, escaped serious injury as he was wearing a bulletproof vest when he was shot in the back. The attack happened in the Short Strand area of the city on Saturday night. Mr Fitzpatrick was treated in hospital for injuries that are not life-threatening. Police said it was "fortunate we are not dealing with a fatality today following this disgraceful attack". "The people undertaking these attacks do not represent our communities and I would appeal to anyone who was in the Short Strand area last night and noticed any suspicious activity or vehicles being driven in a suspicious manner to contact detectives," they added. 'Attempt to kill' Justice Minister Naomi Long described it as a "disgusting and reckless attack that could have resulted in loss of life". Sinn Féin's policing spokesperson Gerry Kelly said: "Thankfully the man has not been seriously hurt but it appears this was an attempt to kill or injure him. "There is no place for guns in our society and those responsible for the attack must be taken off the streets and should face due process in the courts."Brexit: Leo Varadkar criticises 'heightened rhetoric' in UK 1 August 2019 Leo Varadkar said the Irish government's approach had been measured Taoiseach Leo Varadkar has said the Irish government's approach to Brexit talks has remained measured in spite of "heightened rhetoric" in the UK. The Irish prime minister said that attacks on him and his deputy, Simon Coveney, in some parts of the British press were nothing new. He was asked about an article in the Daily Telegraph which accused him and Mr Coveney of behaving like children . "I think any heightened rhetoric isn't coming from us," he said. "So there's a certain irony of being accused of that, when I really think the rhetoric and the language that's come from the Irish government has been very measured and very consistent over the last couple of years. "What we're seeing now in the British press, it's not the first time we've seen that. Congratulations to @borisjohnson on his election as party leader. Look forward to an early engagement on #Brexit , Northern Ireland and bilateral relations — Leo Varadkar (@LeoVaradkar) July 23, 2019 View original tweet on Twitter "There were elements of that a few years ago as well when we were at a sensitive point in negotiations. "My attitude to that is that when people start to criticise you personally or attack your character it's because they don't really want to engage with you on the substance of the issues." 'Afraid of no-deal Brexit' He made the comments during a visit to County Kilkenny. Asked why he mentioned the obligation of the UK government to be impartial on Northern Ireland to Prime Minister Boris Johnson when they spoke by phone earlier this week, Mr Varadkar said he thought it was relevant. "It would be something I would have mentioned to Prime Minister [Theresa] May as well," he said. "The Good Friday Agreement is explicit about a number of things - explicit about the principle of consent, that Northern Ireland is part of the United Kingdom until such time as people may decide otherwise. "There's provision in the Good Friday Agreement for a future referendum were the circumstances to be right for that. "I don't think they are at the moment." 'Dial down the rhetoric' Separately, Mr Varadkar also rejected a call from DUP leader Arlene Foster for him to "dial down the rhetoric" over Brexit. Speaking to the press at Stormont on Wednesday, Mrs Foster said Mr Varadkar needed to "recognise the mandate of the prime minister". "We have tried to engage with him on a number of occasions, around Brexit," she said. "Famously he didn't take the prime minister's calls on one occasion." Speaking at the event in County Kilkenny, Mr Varadkar said he had "never refused a meeting request from the DUP", and noted his phone conversation with the new prime minister. Mr Varadkar was also asked about his fear of a no-deal Brexit. "I think we should be afraid," he said. "A no-deal Brexit would have very serious impacts on the economy north and south and in Britain - it could have security implications as well."Belfast: Man injured in Short Strand gun attack 26 January 2020 Police officers carried out enquiries in Short Strand on Sunday A man has been injured in a gun attack in the Short Strand area of Belfast. Police said he was shot while walking in the area at about 19:45 GMT on Saturday. The man was treated in hospital for injuries that are not life-threatening, according to police. In a statement, Det Sgt Duffield said it was "fortunate we are not dealing with a fatality today following this disgraceful attack". "The people undertaking these attacks do not represent our communities and I would appeal to anyone who was in the Short Strand area last night and noticed any suspicious activity or vehicles being driven in a suspicious manner to contact detectives," he added. 'Attempt to kill' Justice Minister Naomi Long described it as a "disgusting and reckless attack that could have resulted in loss of life". Writing on Twitter, she called for anyone with information to contact police. A disgusting & reckless attack that could have resulted in loss of life. Such actions have no place anywhere in our community. I'd appeal to anyone with any information to contact @PSNIBelfastE . BBC News - Belfast: Man injured in Short Strand gun attack https://t.co/dpSpY9UjqK — Naomi Long MEP MLA (@naomi_long) January 26, 2020 View original tweet on Twitter Sinn Féin's policing spokesperson Gerry Kelly said: "Thankfully the man has not been seriously hurt but it appears this was an attempt to kill or injure him. "There is no place for guns in our society and those responsible for the attack must be taken off the streets and should face due process in the courts."Australia shark attack: Man killed spearfishing near Fraser Island 4 July 2020 The victim was spearfishing in waters off the popular Fraser Island (file photo) A man has died after being attacked by a shark off the east coast of Australia, officials say. The 36-year-old was bitten on the leg while spearfishing in waters near Queensland's Fraser Island, north of Brisbane, police said on Saturday. A doctor and nurse provided first aid treatment on shore, but the man was later pronounced dead at the scene when paramedics arrived. It is the fourth fatal shark attack in Australian waters so far this year. The shark stayed in the area for hours before disappearing In a Facebook post on Saturday, Fraser Coast mayor George Seymour said it was a "tremendously sad day for our community". He offered his condolences to the victim's family and friends, adding that the loss of life was "a tragedy beyond words and we share their sadness and grief". Police said the victim died about two-and-a-half hours after he was bitten. His body was transported by helicopter from Indian Head on the eastern side of the island to the coastal city of Hervey Bay in Queensland. Sharks are common in Australian waters but attacks are relatively rare. Last month, a 60-year-old man died after he was mauled by a 3m (10ft) great white shark while surfing in northern New South Wales. In April, a 23-year-old Queensland ranger was killed in an attack on the Great Barrier Reef. And in January, a 57-year-old diver was killed off Western Australia. No deaths were recorded last year.Nick Robinson puts Diane Abbott on the spot over Syria Labour's shadow home secretary Diane Abbott faced a grilling from the BBC's Nick Robinson on the Today programme, in which she was repeatedly asked what Labour would do about chemical attacks in Syria if it was in power. Here is a transcript of the key exchange: Diane Abbott: Labour believes in the rule of the law and we hope that there will be an independent UN-led investigation. Nick Robinson: Why wasn’t there one after the last chemical attack? Why hasn’t there been a single UN-led investigation since the Syrian war began eight years ago? DA: We have to go forward and we have to go forward on the basis of the facts and the evidence… NR: You’re calling for something that hasn’t happened for eight years so why hasn’t it happened? DA: We think it should happen. NR: Why hasn’t it happened? DA: You’d have to ask the UN but we think… NR: I’ll tell you why it hasn’t happened, because Russia have vetoed such a call six times. DA: The Labour party believes that there is no military solution to the situation in Syria. There is a political… NR: Imagine you’re in office now, Jeremy Corbyn, we know, thinks there could be an election by the end of the year. He would be Prime Minister in No 10, you would be sitting around a war cabinet table, you recommend that the UN should investigate and officials say to you ‘it’s a very interesting idea minister but Russia has vetoed such an investigation six times and they will do it again.’ So what now? DA: There has to be a political negotiation because you’re never going to solve the situation in Syria whilst Assad has the tacit support of Russia… NR: I’m asking you a specific question: if Russia vetoes, what you are calling for in the Labour party – which they have done six times already – what would be the reaction of a Labour government in that circumstance? DA: We would press on trying to bring people to the table. We believe that more bombing is not the answer to the crisis in Syria. 13 April 2018 BBC News UK PoliticsConservatives to set up second HQ in Leeds 3 October 2020 The Conservatives plan to open a second headquarters in Leeds, the party's co-chairman has announced. The new HQ - a northern counterpart to Conservative Campaign Headquarters in London -  is expected to open next year, Amanda Milling said, as she opened the party's virtual conference. Some MPs have urged the PM to set out a broad post-Brexit vision for the party. It comes as Boris Johnson has promised low-deposit mortgages to help young people get onto the housing ladder. In an interview with the Daily Telegraph ahead of his party's four-day conference, the prime minister said he had asked ministers to work up plans for encouraging long-term fixed-rate mortgages with 5% deposits. "We need mortgages that will help people really get on the housing ladder even if they have only a very small amount to pay by way of deposit, the 95% mortgages," he said. "I think it could be absolutely revolutionary, particularly for young people." The Conservative Campaign Headquarters, in Westminster, London, is where general election campaigns are run. It was known for many years as Conservative Central Office. According to BBC political correspondent Iain Watson, it houses press officers who undertake the more political tasks which civil servants cannot do - including attacking opponents and rebutting opponents' attacks. It also liaises with the "voluntary party" - the grassroots foot soldiers - and raises funds for national campaigning. The Conservatives argue that the new Leeds headquarters will reinforce their commitment to deliver for those in northern constituencies who voted for the party for the first time at the general election in December. "This new headquarters will provide the party with a base at the heart of the blue wall," Ms Milling said. Also speaking at the conference, Cabinet Office minister Michael Gove said the government wanted to move more Civil Service jobs outside of London. "Far too many government jobs tend to be in the Westminster and Whitehall village," he said. "We have an amazing Civil Service and it has drawn its resources and people from lots of different communities - I think we now need to give back to those communities as well." Meanwhile, Downing Street has set out the details of an independent review of transport connections across the UK . The review, led by Network Rail chairman Sir Peter Hendy, will look at improving road and rail networks and will also examine the "cost, practicality and demand" of building a bridge or tunnel between Northern Ireland and Scotland. The transport study will set out advice on a "wide range of possible options" to improve the quality and availability of links across the UK, Downing Street said. 793,139 3 23 One of the stated aims of the Tories' virtual conference is to demonstrate that the party is listening to those voters who said they were merely lending their support to the Conservatives. There will be a lot of talk about "levelling up" - in other words, doing more to spread investment and opportunity beyond London and the South East. But some recently-elected Conservative MPs believe the term is vague and not easily understood by voters. One of the 2019 intake told our correspondent: "We need to put flesh on the bones of this agenda - it has be about more than a couple of shiny new rail stations." Another said the prime minister had to "raise his sights" and provide a longer-term vision, amid concerns over narrowing polls. 'Domestic agenda' Mr Johnson told the Telegraph that he was determined to press ahead with a "massive domestic agenda" and deliver on Conservative manifesto promises, despite the ongoing coronavirus crisis. The prime minister has promised to create "Generation Buy" with low-deposit mortgages to help get young people onto the housing ladder. He has also insisted he remains a low-tax, libertarian Conservative who will pay for the cost of the pandemic through a "free market-led recovery". Meanwhile, Mr Johnson dismissed newspaper reports that he and Chancellor Rishi Sunak were now rivals as "genuinely untrue". "We are as one," he said. Boris Johnson hired a personal trainer after ending up in hospital with coronavirus Asked about his coronavirus strategy, the prime minister said "all of this is being kept under constant review". "If we make progress, all of these measures are capable of being changed," he said. New rules, such as restricting gatherings to a maximum of six people and limiting opening hours for hospitality venues, are among the national measures that have been introduced around the UK. Mr Johnson also offered some weight loss advice, after losing more than two stone following his experience contracting coronavirus earlier this year . According to the paper, he now weighs 15st 8lbs - having been 17st 6lbs - and said his top tip was "eat less, move more, weigh less". Mr Johnson has previously revealed he has hired a personal trainer to lose weight after acknowledging he was "too fat" when he caught Covid-19. The government's spending plans to meet hospital pledge Analysis by Alice Aitken, BBC Reality Check You may remember that the Conservatives pledged to build 40 new hospitals in their 2019 election manifesto. On the eve of the party conference, the prime minister confirmed £3.7bn in funding for the project - an increase on the £2.8bn previously announced. Six Hospital Trusts had already been promised £2.7bn in funding while 21 others were given a share of £100m in seed funding to develop proposals. On Friday those Trusts were told they will all be fully-funded to deliver 25 new hospitals. A new hospital at Shotley Bridge in Durham has been added to the list and the government is also inviting bids for a further eight schemes. They say these new schemes mean 48 hospitals will be delivered by 2030.Far-right fears: Berlin neighbourhood fights back By Damien McGuinness 8 August 2019 Local politican Ferat Kocak's car was set on fire in 2018 as it stood next to his parents' home Fears of far-right violence are growing in Germany, after politician Walter Lübcke was shot dead in June, allegedly by a right-wing extremist. In one quiet area of Berlin, local residents are also being targeted. One victim is a bookshop-owner. Another is a historian who runs a gallery. A third is a mother who refused to accept a far-right election campaign leaflet. What they all have in common is that they stood up against right-wing extremism. Their cars have been torched. Molotov cocktails have been thrown against their houses, and their windows have been smashed with bricks. Neo-Nazi death threats have been daubed in red paint on to the walls of homes. But this is not a crime-ridden area. The southern end of the Berlin district of Neukölln, where these people live, is peaceful and leafy. Full of carefully tended gardens and spotless pavements, it is a residential middle-class idyll on the edge of the city. Heinz Ostermann runs a bookshop in a quiet shopping street. In December 2016, shortly after the right-wing populist AfD won seats in the national parliament, he hosted a discussion evening entitled "What to do against the AfD? Stand up against racism". Shortly afterwards his bookshop window was smashed in. In January, his car was set on fire and destroyed. Local residents got together and raised money for a second car for him. That vehicle has also been torched. "The worst thing is the idea that there are always idiots who think they have to go further. And that maybe it won't end with burning cars. That other things will happen next," he said. Burning cars are a common sign of political violence in Berlin - easy to do, and hard to trace. In the past three years at least 13 cars have been torched by the far right in Neukölln alone. Heinz Ostermann's bookshop was smashed and two of his cars were torched Left-wing local politician Ferat Kocak's car was set on fire in 2018 as it stood next to his parents' home. Flames licked the building where he and his family were sleeping. Mirjam Blumenthal, a centre-left SPD politician on the district council, has also been hit. Her car was set alight and a youth centre she runs has been hit by two arson attacks. Neo-Nazi symbols later appeared on the youth centre's walls, alongside the words "We are burning with interest in you." According to Berlin police, more than 400 far-right criminal acts have been reported in Neukölln since 2016. These include smashed windows, arson attacks or physical violence. But also neo-Nazi death threats, with individuals' names daubed in red paint on the walls of their homes. Christiane Schott has been targeted for years. She was gardening in front of her home, when activists from the far-right NPD party came into her front garden to put an election flyer in her letter box. She said she did not want to accept a far-right leaflet. They threatened her, read her name on the front-door and told her that she would hear from them again. She did. Christiane says she was targeted by neo-Nazis at her home Her home has been attacked seven times - including with stones through the windows and three Molotov cocktails against the house wall. She has also been terrorised by threats to her and her daughters through anonymous phone calls and letters. I put these allegations to one of the leaders of the NPD in Berlin, Stefan Lux. As he shows me his election posters - one of them reads "Migration Kills" - he says there is no evidence that these crimes have been committed by the NPD or the far right. Instead he blames the violence on migrants. "There are Sunni Muslim Arabs, who are criminals, who act as part of criminal clans, who are competing with each other. In some of these cases it cannot be ruled out that people have been hit by criminal violence because of these competing gangs." Police are treating these incidents as far-right crimes. Neukölln is a large district, home to more than 300,000 people. The northern part of Neukölln is urban, multicultural and rapidly gentrifying — full of hip cafes and creative international types. As rents rise, people are moving out to southern Neukölln, where for decades there has been a small but well-established far-right scene. Police gave few details but confirmed that Walter Lübcke had been shot in the head with a short-range weapon Ferat Kocak believes this is one reason why the violence here has flared up. "This is traditionally a very white middle-class area, but that's now changing, it is becoming more multicultural, with people with different lifestyles. These far-right guys don't feel comfortable with that." Since 2015 and 2016, when around 1.5 million refugees and migrants came to Germany, the debate around migration has become ferocious. Recently numbers have dropped, and overall Germany has coped well with the influx, so the sense of political urgency has faded. But pro-migration politicians from all mainstream parties are still being threatened. Police suspect that Walter Lübcke was killed because of his support for refugees. Two pro-refugee mayors have been stabbed, and hundreds of local mayors say they have been physically assaulted. In Neukölln victims of far-right violence say the police are not doing enough. "They should uncover why this right-wing terror is still being trivialised," says historian Claudia von Gelieu, whose car was torched after she staged an event about Nazi-era oppression. Residents say the police are not doing enough to prevent far-right attacks Berlin police have told the BBC they are taking the threats, and the concerns of victims, seriously. A special unit has been set up to investigate far-right crime in Neukölln. But no arrests have been made. Which is why Christiane Schott, together with other local residents, comes to police headquarters in Berlin every Thursday to protest, calling for the police to do more. The violence continues. But Ms Schott refuses to back down. "When you're in a situation like that, you have to show where you stand," she says.Sunday Igboho: The Nigeria car salesman going after cattle herders 14 February In Nigeria, clashes between ethnic Fulanis and other groups have cost thousands of lives in the past decades and now a car salesman has emerged as a controversial national figure in this increasingly deadly conflict, as the BBC's Nduka Orjinmo reports. Hailed as a hero by his supporters, Sunday "Igboho" Adeyemo is seen as a dangerous rabble rouser by his opponents, accused of inciting ethnic hatred and killing. Once only well-known in his part of south-western Nigeria, he has now become one of the most talked about - and divisive - figures across the country. Through a series of inflammatory statements, Mr Adeyemo has been thrust into the heart of one of Nigeria's most deadly ethnic divides - the conflict between Fulani herders and other groups, over access to land and grazing rights. Lionised in a feature film Last month after the killing of a politician, Mr Adeyemo felt he had seen enough and captured attention with his demand that the Fulani herders, from northern Nigeria, leave the south-west, seen as the home of the Yoruba ethnic group, for all their alleged crimes. But this self-styled defender of the defenceless, popularly known as Igboho - after his hometown in south-west Oyo state - is no stranger to controversy and deadly conflict. The 48-year-old has been lionised locally for his role, in the late 1990s, in age-old intra-Yoruba communal battles. His reputed exploits were acted out in a feature film that was a fantastical display of magic charms and juju. In one scene where rival gangs face off, the actor playing Mr Adeyemo arrives on a motorcycle, picks up a poisoned banana and calmly eats half of it without feeling any ill effects. He then plucks a machine gun out of thin air and fires at his opponents who flee in every direction. That film and other tales about him, such as that he walks around with a snake around his neck, have contributed to a local reputation of invincibility. Who is Sunday Adeyemo? It is not clear how he came into the car business that he operates out of the city of Ibadan but he seems to have made a success of it, selling everything from new Rolls Royces to second-hand Toyotas. His clientele include powerful politicians and governors and he is often seen with them in public. Mr Adeyemo achieved some national notoriety last October when he used the country's independence day to call for the creation of an independent Yoruba republic, although he was widely ridiculed for the idea. Now, though, as he has become a lightning rod for local grievances he is being taken more seriously. Land rights are at the core of those grievances. Climate change is pushing Fulani pastoralists to go further south to graze their cattle Fulani herders and their families walk for hundreds of kilometres from the extreme north to central Nigeria and beyond at least twice a year to find the best grazing land for their cattle. But this has often led to friction with local communities, who accuse their cattle of trampling on their crops, and sometimes accuse the herders of robbery and other crimes. Some of the herders are also employed by rich southerners who own the cattle but employ Fulani to look after them. A federal government plan approved in 2019 to solve the problem by creating ranches for the herdsmen was rejected by most southern governors who accused President Muhammadu Buhari, a Fulani, of hatching a plot to grab land for his people. In the past few years, clashes have become more deadly as both the Fulani and those opposed to them have set up armed self-defence militias. In the south-west, state governors established a regional security outfit, Amotekun, to help deal with the problems. Open grazing has also been banned in all six south-western states. Tensions were ignited in December after the killing of politician Fatai Aborode, in Oyo state. Mr Adeyemo decided to take matters into his own hands and told the Fulanis to go, without providing any evidence of their involvement in that killing or other alleged crimes. After his seven-day ultimatum expired in January, he held a rally in the area where the killing took place, after which the homes of some more settled Fulani, who had been part of the community for generations, were burned. 'I shiver when I hear his name' Abdulkadri Saliu, the leader of the Fulanis in the area, whose house was torched and who has now fled, accused Mr Adeyemo of instigating the trouble. "At the mention of Igboho's name I get scared and shiver," he said, adding he had never seen violence like it. He also alleged that his younger brother was killed. Abdulkadri Saliu accuses Mr Adeyemo of instigating the villagers to destroy his property, which he denies Mr Adeyemo denied responsibility for the trouble, saying that the police had been with him all through the time he was in the area. But he also travelled to Yewa in Ogun state to "evict" Fulani herders. There, he was received by a joyous crowd and whipped them up by saying that "killer herdsmen" had escaped justice "because the herdsmen are close to the federal government". "Any Fulani herdsman who engages in kidnapping should be flushed out," he added. Police say they are investigating both incidents but will not say if he is a suspect. You may also be interested in: His actions have been widely condemned, especially by groups in northern Nigeria who accuse him of inciting ethnic violence and engaging in the "unlawful eviction" of citizens. Some political leaders in the south-west have joined in the criticism but there has also been massive support for him in the region. Federal lawmaker Shina Peller wrote a message on Instagram saluting Mr Adeyemo's "courage, bravery, and participation in this struggle".     A post shared by Shina Peller (@shinapeller) A GoFundMe account to raise money for his cause received more than 10m naira (£19,000; $26,000)  in less than 24 hours. 'Nigerians can live where they want' Mr Adeyemo's sympathisers accuse the federal government of not doing enough to stop the attacks on local communities by herdsmen. Benue Governor Samuel Ortom, whose state was until recently the epicentre of deadly clashes between the herders and farmers, believes that the crisis has been enabled by the leniency of the president towards the Fulani herders. Information Minister Lai Mohammed said he would not be drawn into a reaction on the governor's comments, telling the BBC that "Nigerians have a right to live in all parts of the country". Nobel literature laureate Wole Soyinka, who is from the south-west, also criticised Mr Buhari's silence on the activities of herders, saying it could develop into a civil war. Wole Soyinka: The war is on our doorstep "What do they expect of us now that the war is on our doorstep? Of course there will be mobilisation and if we keep waiting for this to be centrally handled, we are all going to become, if we're not already, slaves in our land," he told the BBC. Soyinka said Mr Adeyemo had responded to the situation in the way he knew how. Attempts are being made to quell the tensions and even Mr Adeyemo has said he is open to talks with the government. But some are now describing him as the saviour who rode up in a shiny car and rescued his people from the cattle herders. For someone who has compared himself to Biblical figures, it is a label he will bask in.'Unconscious bias training' to be scrapped by ministers By Sean Coughlan 15 December 2020 "Unconscious bias training" is being scrapped for civil servants in England, with ministers saying it does not work. The training, intended to tackle patterns of discrimination and prejudice, is used in many workplaces. The government says there is no evidence it changes attitudes - and is urging other public sector employers to end this type of training. But race equality campaigner Halima Begum said the government "mustn't backtrack on anti-racism training". Discrimination Lucille Thirlby, assistant general secretary of the FDA civil servants' union, called on ministers to say "what are you going to replace it with". "How will they ensure people are not discriminated against? It's easier to attack something than do something positive about it," she said. Unconscious bias training is an attempt to challenge prejudiced ways of thinking that could unfairly influence decisions - such as who might get a job or a promotion. It can be prejudiced behaviour, based on assumptions about others, that people are not aware of themselves. But the government says there is no proof that such training changes behaviour - and that it can "backfire" and create a negative response. A written ministerial statement from Cabinet Office minister Julia Lopez will announce "unconscious bias training does not achieve its intended aims. It will therefore be phased out in the civil service". "We encourage other public sector employers to do likewise," she says, urging the end to training which has been widely used to address bias in race, gender and sexuality. But it has also been caught up in "culture war" arguments and accusations over "political correctness". 'No evidence' The government says it is "determined to eliminate discrimination in the workplace", but unconscious bias training is the wrong approach. The Government Equalities Office says there has been "no evidence" that the training improved workplace equality. Among the researchers cited is psychologist Patrick Forscher, who examined more than 400 studies on unconscious bias. He said that few studies measured changes over time, and among "the most robust of those that did", the findings suggested "changes in implicit bias don't last". Dr Forscher said such training had too often been used by employers as a "catch all", which failed to really tackle the specific barriers for different groups. Halima Begum, chief executive of the Runnymede Trust race equality think tank, said unconscious bias training is not always effective - and recognised the dangers of a corporate "diversity industry" wanting to have "off the shelf" training. But she warned the government would have to replace it with something better and further reaching - which addressed bias and "ingrained views" at a more "fundamental level". Ms Begum said there needed to be structural changes about fair pay, progression and work practices, rather than courses which "make your boss feel better, but is not going to change the system". The value of such training was defended by Jane Farrell, chief executive of the EW Group, a diversity and inclusion consultancy. "There is a misconception that unconscious bias training is guilt inducing and tells people off for who or what they are, which is simply not true," she said. "Great unconscious bias training provides a positive and supportive environment to think through how to ensure we recruit the best staff rather than inadvertently clone ourselves," said Ms Farrell. Not just 'woke' Psychologist and author Stuart Ritchie said even though many staff might be required to take such unconscious bias training there was "nowhere near robust evidence" that it was able to change minds or behaviour. Dr Ritchie said firms might use this training to "placate worries", but there was a lack of evidence that it would really reduce prejudice. Jonny Gifford, who has worked with firms on diversity and inclusion, said unconscious bias had to be recognised as a "massive problem". But Mr Gifford, adviser to the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development, warned the shortcomings of unconscious bias training should not be used to stop trying to "make the workplace more inclusive and to reduce barriers to inequality". "To dismiss this as political correctness or being 'woke' is a very shaky place to be," said Mr Gifford.Afghanistan: At least 17 killed in Eid car blast 31 July 2020 The Taliban have denied responsibility for the attack At least 17 people have been killed in Afghanistan in a powerful car bomb blast in Logar province. The explosion came on the eve of a ceasefire declared by the Taliban during the festival of Eid. The Taliban have denied responsibility for the attack, while the Islamic State has not yet commented. The attack was believed to have been carried out by a suicide bomber, Dedar Lawang, spokesman for Logar's governor, told the AFP news agency. The blast happened near the governor's office and where many people were shopping for the festival. The blast happened on a crowded street "The terrorists have once again struck on the night of Eid al-Adha and killed a number of our countrymen," interior ministry spokesman Tariq Arian said. Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said the attack had "nothing to do" with the group. The Taliban and Afghan government have agreed on a three-day ceasefire starting Friday, the first day of Eid. There are hopes of a permanent truce but peace talks have been delayed due to prisoner exchanges. An agreement was made that the government would release 5,000 Taliban prisoners in exchange for 1,000 of its security personnel. The Afghan government has released more than 4,400 Taliban prisoners, while a spokesman for the insurgents said on Thursday that a total of 1,005 government inmates had now been set free. You may also be interested in: "I was with the Taliban for one year"QIH: Arson attempt takes place at home of director's relative 19 February 2020 Two vehicles parked outside the home of the relative of a Quinn Industrial Holdings (QIH) director was targeted in an attempted arson attack. Would-be arsonists attempted to burn the vehicle near Derrylin, County Fermanagh, at about 03:00 GMT, police said. The incident was captured on CCTV and police are now investigating. The attempted arson attack is the latest in a string of incidents targeting people connected to QIH. In September 2019, Kevin Lunney, a QIH director, was abducted and badly beaten. The firm was formerly owned by businessman Sean Quinn, who was once Ireland's richest man but was declared bankrupt in 2012. Mr Quinn has repeatedly spoken out against attacks on his former businesses. 'Cowardly attack' The chief executive of QIH, Liam McCaffrey, said the latest incident was "deeply concerning". "Following the savage kidnap and torture of Kevin Lunney last September this resumption of violence and intimidation is deeply concerning and shows that the perpetrators will stop at nothing until those directing their activities are brought to justice," he said. Mr McCaffrey added he was "relieved" this attack was contained "without loss of life or serious damage". Sinn Féin MP for Fermanagh and South Tyrone Michelle Gildernew said she was "horrified" to learn of the attack. "There has been an unacceptable criminal campaign of intimidation against management and staff at QIH over recent years," she said. "If those involved in these attacks do not cease someone will lose their life." PSNI Det Insp Michael Winters said: "We are working to establish a motive for this cowardly attack." He asked for anyone who was on the Belturbet Road at about 03:00 on Saturday and noticed any unusual activity, including vehicles being driven in a suspicious manner, to contact detectives.