Priti Patel: Facebook encryption plan ‘must not hamper child protection’ By David Molloy 3 days ago Facebook's plans to roll out encryption across its messaging services could jeopardise ongoing work to combat child abuse, the Home Secretary has warned. Such encryption means only the sender and recipient can read messages. "We cannot allow a situation where law enforcement's ability to tackle abhorrent criminal acts and protect victims is severely hampered," Priti Patel told a charity-hosted event. Facebook says its plans for wider encryption protects users' privacy. The National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children (NSPCC), which invited Ms Patel to speak, has claimed that private messaging "is the frontline of child sexual abuse". Encrypting messages by default could lead to the easier spread of child abuse imagery or online grooming, it has said. In her speech, the Home Secretary said that Facebook must take into account public safety when it makes changes to its platform - and in particular seriously consider the effect on children. "Sadly, at a time when we need to be taking more action... Facebook is still pursuing end-to-end encryption plans that place the good work and the progress that has already been made at jeopardy," she said. "Offending is continuing, and will continue - these images of children being abused just continue to proliferate, even right now while we are speaking. But the company intends to blind itself to this problem through end-to-end encryption which prevents all access to messaging content." "My view is that this is simply not acceptable," she added. Facebook, however, said that "end-to-end encryption is already the leading security technology used by many services to keep people safe from hackers and criminals". Safety features are already a part of its plans, it added. 'Scrambled' messages End-to-end encryption guarantees privacy by making sure only the sender or recipient can read the messages. While it travels, it is scrambled to be unreadable, including by law enforcement. The only way to read the message is usually to get physical access to an unlocked device receiving it. Currently, only one of Facebook's major messaging platforms - WhatsApp - uses end-to-end encryption by default. The company has plans to make the privacy feature the norm on Facebook Messenger and Instagram - but has not yet done so. When messaging platforms are not end-to-end encrypted, tech giants such as Facebook can use automatic scanning of their users' posts to identify the sharing of known child abuse images and detect questionable use of private messaging - such as an older person chatting to underage users they do not already know. What is encryption? The NSPCC argues that rolling out the encryption as planned would "render these [scanning] tools useless", and is calling on Facebook to reconsider. An estimate from the US National Center for Missing and Exploited children suggests as many as 70% of child abuse reports around the world could be lost if it goes ahead. The NPSCC unveiled research at the event that suggests social media users are keen to see some guarantee that children's safety will be protected. The charity is demanding a "reset" of the debate, arguing that it has become stuck as an "either/or" debate between personal privacy and child safety. Instead, it is calling for a "balanced" solution that protects both. Ms Patel echoed that sentiment, saying: "I want to make it clear that the government does support encryption, where of course companies can protect users' privacy, and there are many areas where this is important." "We believe that it is possible to implement end-to-end encryption, the service, in a way in which is also consistent with public protection and child safety," she said. But she did not say what that would look like. Some possible solutions, such as on-device software that scans messages before they are sent, have their own privacy concerns. Encryption still 'popular' Gaining access to the content of encrypted messages has long been a topic of debate in government. One of Ms Patel's predecessors, Amber Rudd, argued in the wake of the 2017 Westminster attack that "we need to make sure that our intelligence services have the ability to get into... encrypted WhatsApp". And former Prime Minister David Cameron, in the wake of the 2015 Paris attacks, declared that there should be no "means of communication" which "we cannot read". Despite such concerns, encrypted messaging remains a sensitive topic with much public support. Jim Killock, executive director of the Open Rights Group, said: "Encryption is popular and growing because users want security and protection from fraud, scams and abuse of their data." "It would be completely unreasonable to ban or limit everyday security for one set of people over the other. "It is absolutely necessary to deal with child abuse images, but solutions must be compatible with people's right to keep themselves safe from other kinds of criminality, so should move away from endlessly debating how to stop the use of encryption." But Sir Peter Wanless, NSPCC chief executive, argued that view risked "leaving children unprotected where there is most harm". "It's in firms' interests to find a fix that allows them to continue to use tech to disrupt abuse in an end-to-end encrypted world," he added. And he said that if the tech giants failed to do so, "ultimately government must be the guardrail" to protect children. Facebook has long defended its plans to introduce end-to-end encryption as essential to user privacy. In a statement reacting to the Home Secretary's remarks, a company spokesman said: "Child exploitation has no place on our platforms and Facebook will continue to lead the industry in developing new ways to prevent, detect and respond to abuse. "Its full rollout on our messaging services is a long-term project and we are building strong safety measures into our plans."Signal slams Cellebrite security company over alleged security holes 17 hours ago Encrypted-messaging app Signal says it has found flaws in software used by cyber-security company Cellebrite. The two companies have been at odds since Cellebrite claimed to have cracked Signal's secure messaging last year - a claim it fiercely disputed. In the latest spat, Signal boss Moxie Marlinspike joked he had acquired Cellebrite's system after it "fell off a truck" in front of him. And, he claimed, its software was so flawed he could easily hack into it. "There are virtually no limits on the code that can be executed," he blogged , suggesting the flaws could be used to access data, change settings, and more. 'Prevent piracy' In a statement, Cellebrite said: "We constantly strive to ensure that our products and software meet and exceed the highest standards in the industry so that all data produced with our tools is validated and forensically sound." Mr Marlinspike said: "By a truly unbelievable coincidence, I was recently out for a walk when I saw a small package fall off a truck ahead of me. "Inside, we found the latest versions of the Cellebrite software, a hardware dongle designed to prevent piracy... and a bizarrely large number of cable adapters." Hinting at his motives for the blog post, he said: "Their software is often associated with bypassing security, so let's take some time to examine the security of their own software." And in a video loaded with satirical references to the 1995 cult film Hackers, Mr Marlinspike then demonstrated apparently running a simple piece of code on a machine running Cellebrite  software, which he claimed showed an easy way to compromise the security company's system. Our latest blog post explores vulnerabilities and possible Apple copyright violations in Cellebrite's software: "Exploiting vulnerabilities in Cellebrite UFED and Physical Analyzer from an app's perspective" https://t.co/DKgGejPu62  pic.twitter.com/X3ghXrgdfo — Signal (@signalapp) April 21, 2021 View original tweet on Twitter "It's possible to execute any code," he added, "and a real exploit payload would likely seek to undetectably alter previous reports, compromise the integrity of future reports (perhaps at random), or exfiltrate data from the Cellebrite machine." They say revenge is a dish best served cold - but in this case, it was served with a giggle. Signal's blog post is full of hacking references and pointed jibes at Cellebrite. The flaws Signal claims to have discovered in the controversial Cellebrite technology, if accurate, are embarrassing for a company billing itself as smart enough to crack into secure-messaging systems. And this comes, of course, only months after Cellebrite claimed to have developed a way to crack private Signal messages - a claim since debunked. So this cyber-security revenge research seems to have left Cellebrite with questions to answer. Cyber-security expert Andrew Morris summed up this story best when he tweeted : "This blog post is the nerd equivalent of an absolutely ruthless rap diss track." And this hacking rap battle may already have ended with a Signal mic drop. The row began in December, when Cellebrite claimed to have cracked Signal's encryption system, in a blog post it later altered to downplay the claim. Signal responded by calling the claim "pretty embarrassing" and criticising media coverage - particularly that of BBC News. What is encryption? In his most recent post., Mr Marlinspike said: "One way to think about Cellebrite's products is that if someone is physically holding your unlocked device in their hands, they could open whatever apps they would like and take screenshots of everything in them to save and go over later," "Cellebrite essentially automates that process for someone holding your device in their hands." In its own statement, Cellebrite said it "understands that research is the cornerstone of ensuring this validation, making sure that lawfully obtained digital evidence is utilised to pursue justice". "We will continue to integrate these standards in our products, software, and the Cellebrite team, in order to deliver the most effective, secure and user-friendly tools for our customers," it added.Signal: Cellebrite claimed to have 'cracked' chat app's encryption By Jane Wakefield 22 December 2020 Israeli security firm Cellebrite has claimed that it can decrypt messages from Signal's highly secure chat and voice-call app, boasting that it could disrupt communications from "gang members, drug dealers and even protesters". A blog on its website detailing how it did it has since been altered . According to one cyber-security expert, the claims sounded "believable". But others, including Signal's founder, have dismissed them as being risible. The BBC has contacted Cellebrite and Signal for comment. Signal did not reply but later posted a blog describing Cellebrite's original post as being "pretty embarrassing". 'Amateur hour' Highly encrypted apps such as Signal and Telegram have become popular among people keen to keep their messages private. The adoption rates have worried law enforcement agencies, who feel they are hampering their ability to investigate crimes. "Apps like these make parsing data for forensic analysis extremely difficult," writes Cellebrite. The firm has a series of products, including the UFED (Universal Foresenic Extraction Device) - a system that allows authorities to unlock and access the data on suspects' phones. Cellebrite provided a technical explanation of how it found a decryption key that allowed it to access the messages that Signal stores its database. It then described how it searched Signal's open-source code for clues as to how to breach the database. "We finally found what we were looking for," it writes, with a full explanation of how it did it, which has since been deleted. Its claim suggested that it could "crack" Signal's encryption on Android phones to decrypt messages and attachments, but did not mention Apple devices. In response to people questioning Cellebrite's claims, the creator of Signal - Moxie Marlinspike - dismissed the idea that the app had been compromised. "This was an article about 'advanced techniques' Cellebrite used to decode a Signal message on an unlocked Android device," he tweeted . "They could have also just opened the app to look at the messages. "The whole article read like amateur hour, which is I assume why they removed it." John Scott-Railton, a senior researcher at Citizen Lab, an internet watchdog based at the University of Toronto, moved to reassure users that Signal "remains one of the most secure and private ways to communicate". "If they are worried about their chats being extracted from a confiscated device, they can enable disappearing messages," he added. 'Extraordinary' claims Signal, owned by the Signal Technology Foundation, puts privacy at the heart of its system, using a system that  had been thought almost impossible to break. The messaging app is endorsed by whistleblower Edward Snowden, who claims to use it "every day". On its website, it says that it uses state-of-the-art, end-to-end encryption to keep all conversations secure. "We can't read your messages or listen to your calls, and no-one else can either." Signal is used by journalists, business leaders and others to have private conversations Alan Woodward, a professor of computer science at Surrey University, said Signal was "one of the most secure, if not the most secure, messenger service publicly available". "Signal employs end-to-end encryption, but goes further than apps like WhatsApp by obscuring metadata - who talked to who when and for how long," he explained. "Cellebrite seem to have been able to recover the decryption key, which seems extraordinary as they are usually very well protected on modern mobile devices." He added that if this was indeed true, it was no surprise Cellebrite would have altered its blog. "I suspect someone in authority told them to, or they realised they may have provided enough detail to allow others - who don't just supply to law-enforcement agencies - to achieve the same result."Facebook shareholders try to block encryption plan By Zoe Thomas 27 May 2020 Investors at Facebook's annual stockholder meeting will vote on a proposal to postpone the firm's plans for end-to-end encryption. The firm says it wants to make the measure the default option across its messaging platforms to protect privacy. But activist shareholders say this would make it nearly impossible to detect child exploitation on Facebook. The group wants the company to delay the move until after its board of directors studies the risk further. "As shareholders, we know that privacy is important to a social media company, but it should not come at the expense of unleashing a whole new torrent of virtually undetectable child sexual abuse on Facebook," said Michael Passoff, founder of Proxy Impact, a shareholder advocacy service supporting the measure . Facebook's 2020 annual shareholders' meeting will be held virtually due to Covid-19, but investors will still be able to vote on measures and hear about the management plans. Facebook claims to be a leader in fighting child exploitation on the internet. "As we expand end-to-end encryption to secure people's private messages from hackers and criminals we remain committed to leading our industry in keeping children safe," it said. The measure is unlikely to pass. Most of the company's voting shares are controlled by Facebook's founder and chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, and a small number of other executives. Plans for more encryption In March 2019, Mr Zuckerberg said he wanted the firm to make end-to-end encryption the base level of security for all its messaging services - including Facebook Messenger and Instagram messaging. But he did not lay out a timeline, and many engineers thought it would be several years before it happened. The initiative would mean that messages - including text and imagery - are digitally scrambled so that only the sender and receiver can make sense of them, and not Facebook itself. WhatsApp, which is owned by Facebook, already has this level of security. The US, UK and Australian governments have been among those pressuring Facebook to create a backdoor or other workaround that would give them access to  messages to help in criminal investigations. The company has so far refused to do this. Mark Zuckerberg wants full end-to-end encryption across all his companies' messaging services The measure put forward by Proxy Impact would force Facebook to examine whether something could be done to mitigate "the risk of increased sexual exploitation of children" as a consequence. In 2019, tech companies reported close to 70 million videos and pictures of children being sexually exploited to authorities. Nearly 85% of those reports came from Facebook. According to Mr Passoff, if the firm were to go through with its encryption plans, 70% of the cases it reports would become invisible to the firm. For Facebook, this is a matter of balancing privacy and public security. Users have expressed anger in the past at Facebook's use and protection of their personal data. End-to-end encryption should prevent criminals from gaining access to private conversations and help protect personal and financial data, assuming users' devices are not compromised. It would also offer the firm a defence against being responsible for detecting and reporting criminal and terrorist activity, as it would no longer be able to read the messages involved. Reputational risk to Facebook Some investors supporting the measure claim this could prove damaging to the company. "Numerous controversies have eroded its reputational capital and put the company at risk for future competitive threats," said Lisette Cooper, vice-chair of Fiduciary Trust International, which is supporting the vote. "The position of Facebook as the world's number one hub for online child sexual abuse material is not the marketing strategy you want to have for long-term success." However, Mr Zuckerberg has previously addressed the issue directly. "When we were deciding whether to go to end-to-end encryption across the different apps, this was one of the things that just weighed the most heavily on me," he said in October . But he added that he was "optimistic" that predators could still be identified by other means, including their patterns of activity.Tool checks phone numbers from Facebook data breach 6 April People can now enter their phone numbers into a website to see if they appeared in a recent Facebook data breach. Details of more than 530 million people were leaked in a database online, largely consisting of mobile numbers. People can use the Have I Been Pwned online tool to check if their numbers or emails were compromised. Facebook says the data is from an “old” breach in 2019 but privacy watchdogs are now investigating. The data Facebook said it had "found and fixed" the breach more than a year-and-a-half ago. But the information has now been published for free in a hacking forum, making it widely available. The database covers 533 million people in 106 countries, according to researchers analysing the data. That includes 11 million Facebook users in the UK, 30 million Americans and 7 million Australians. Not every piece of data is available for each user but 500 million phone numbers were leaked compared with “only a few million email addresses”, Troy Hunt, a security expert who runs HaveIBeenPwned said in a blog on his website. 'Not just a tiny slice of people' Mr Hunt launched the phone number search function after “unprecedented traffic” to the website, following the news of the Facebook data leak. Previously, users of the platform could only search for email addresses. Visitors to the website can now enter their mobile number into a search box, and the website will confirm if it has appeared in the leaked database. “I wanted to ensure Have I Been Pwned could answer that question for everyone, not just a tiny slice of people,” Mr Hunt told the BBC. It has also been suggested that Facebook’s own chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, had his mobile number leaked in the database. "This is the number associated with his account from the recent Facebook leak," security expert Dave Walker tweeted, along with a screenshot of Zuckerberg's leaked phone number. In another turn of events, Mark Zuckerberg also respects his own privacy, by using a chat app that has end-to-end encryption and isn't owned by @facebook This is the number associated with his account from the recent facebook leak. https://t.co/AXbXrF4ZxE — Dave Walker (@Daviey) April 4, 2021 View original tweet on Twitter The screenshot also suggests Mr Zuckerberg was on messaging platform Signal - which uses end-to-end encryption and is not owned by Facebook. Mark Zuckerberg's phone number was released in the leak, experts have suggested Facebook has requested users input their phone numbers since 2011, citing security reasons. It allows for “two-factor authentication”, an additional feature that sends a text to a user’s mobile whenever somebody logs into their account. The tech giant has advised users to check what details they share publicly on the platform by updating the How People Find and Contact You section, as well as completing "regular privacy checkups". De'Graft was shocked by the data Facebook stored on him Facebook added the data was "scraped" using public information available on the system, rather than hacked. Meanwhile, several investigations have been launched into Facebook by privacy watchdogs around the world. Ireland's Data Protection Commission said it was working with the tech firm to establish if “the dataset referred to is indeed the same as that reported in 2019”. The Philippines’ National Privacy Commission and Hong Kong’s Office of the Privacy Commissioner have also launched probes into the breach.NSPCC urges Facebook to stop encryption plans 6 February 2020 Child-protection organisations say Facebook's decision to strongly encrypt messages will give offenders a place to hide. The company is moving ahead with plans to implement the measure on Facebook Messenger and Instagram Direct. But more than 100 organisations, led by the NSPCC, have signed an open letter warning the plans will undermine efforts to catch abusers. Home Secretary Priti Patel said she "fully supported" the move. In a statement to the BBC, she said: "Tech companies like Facebook have a vital responsibility to balance privacy with the safety of vulnerable children." "Following my letter to Mark Zuckerberg, I met with Sheryl Sandberg and emphasised that Facebook's encryption plans cannot be allowed to hamper their ability to protect young people from paedophiles online. We have also submitted detailed evidence to the US Senate about these concerns. "I fully support the continued efforts of the NSPCC and children's charities around the world to engage Facebook on this issue." End-to-end encryption, already used on Facebook-owned WhatsApp, means no-one, including the company that owns the platform, can see the content of sent messages. Those signing the letter say Facebook has failed to address concerns about child safety. The missive urges the company to stop the rollout of its plans until "sufficient safeguards" are in place. "At a time when we could be looking to build upon years of sophisticated initiatives, Facebook instead seems inclined to blindfold itself," the letter says. "We urge you to recognise and accept that an increased risk of child abuse being facilitated on or by Facebook is not a reasonable trade-off to make. "Children should not be put in harm's way either as a result of commercial decisions or design choices." Among the other signatories were Barnardo's, 5Rights, the International Centre For Missing and Exploited Children, and Child USA. 'Safety first' A spokesman for Facebook said protecting the wellbeing of children on its platform was "critically important" to it. "We have led the industry in safeguarding children from exploitation and we are bringing this same commitment and leadership to our work on encryption," he said. "We are working closely with child-safety experts, including NCMEC [the US National Center for Missing and Exploited Children], law enforcement, governments and other technology companies, to help keep children safe online." In 2018, Facebook made 16.8 million reports of child sexual exploitation and abuse content to the NCMEC. The National Crime Agency said this had led to more than 2,500 arrests and 3,000 children made safe. But, the NCMEC estimates, if Facebook implements end-to-end encryption, it could mean 70% of these vital reports are lost. In October, Facebook boss Mark Zuckerberg said the increased risk of child abuse "weighed heavily" on him when considering the company's end-to-end encryption plan. A BBC News investigation last year found encrypted apps were taking over from the dark web as a place to host criminals. But WhatsApp boss Will Cathcart has previously posted on Hacker News : "End-to-end encryption protects that right for over a billion people every day." And Jo O'Reilly, digital privacy advocate at ProPrivacy, said many users would probably welcome Facebook's plans. "It will make it significantly less likely that hackers will be able to intercept messages, going a long way to protect users from phishing and cyber-stalking," she said. "It is the kind of of decisive action users will be looking for to reassure them that their private conversations really are private in the wake of privacy scandals." 'Moral responsibility' But Chief Constable Simon Bailey, the National Police Chiefs' Council lead for child protection, said end-to-end encryption would make catching criminals tougher. "If Facebook proceed with their current plans, they will knowingly put the safety of children at risk - ignoring the warnings of police, charities and experts across the world," he said. "There is a moral responsibility on them to ensure this does not happen." And NSPCC chief executive Peter Wanless said: "Facebook may be happy to shut their eyes to abuse but they can't close their ears to this unanimous concern shown by international experts. "In its current form, encryption would breach Facebook's duty of care for children so the UK government must ensure a new regulator has the power to hold them financially and criminally accountable.Child abuse: Warning of siblings being groomed online By Adam Eley 24 March Criminals and paedophiles are trying to groom and exploit young siblings as part of an emerging trend of online sexual abuse, experts have warned. The Internet Watch Foundation said victims ranged from 3-16 years, with some groomed to copy adult pornography. It found 511 examples involving siblings between September and December - roughly one in 30 instances of all "self-generated content" in that time. Campaigners say livestreaming services need to do more to protect children. The IWF, which works with police and websites worldwide to take down harmful material, said the Covid-19 pandemic had been a "perfect storm" for the abuse. Its chief executive, Susie Hargreaves, said there had been: There was a "common myth" abuse involving siblings was limited to poorer countries - but most of the videos the IWF found featured children in the West, including from the UK, US and across Europe. Grooming often begins on social-media and gaming platforms, before offenders encourage children on to video-chat or livestreaming services where the abuse then escalates. And abuse of siblings typically involves an older child being coerced into abusing their younger brother or sister. One video, shared online multiple times, involved a brother and sister aged six and three being given instructions by an abuser, the IWF said. 'Heinous offenders' Last December, the government set out its proposed Online Harms Bill, designed to ensure companies provide improved safeguarding measures. It plans to give watchdog Ofcom the power to: The proposals contained the "strongest protections" for children, Safeguarding Minister Victoria Atkins told BBC News. "Encouraging siblings to enact sexual abuse demonstrates just how heinous offenders are in this space," she added. Facebook Messenger Rooms, a video chat service, was launched during the pandemic NSPCC online-safety-policy head Andy Burrows said it could be a "world-leading piece of legislation" but must follow through with its promise to give Ofcom "teeth" to step in and take action. In the past year, in the race to bring video-chat and livestreaming services to market, some technology companies had prioritised profit over making their platforms safe, the charity said. And Mr Burrows raised particular concerns over Facebook's plans to introduce end-to-end encryption - a way of sending information so only the intended receiver can read it - across all of its messenger services. 'Anti-abuse measures' Plans to include it in its video-chat service, Rooms, launched in May, would "significantly compromise the ability to detect child abuse", he said. The National Crime Agency said the changes would "dramatically reduce [Facebook's] ability to provide law-enforcement with the evidence they need" to prosecute alleged offenders. Facebook said end-to-end encryption "was already the leading security technology used by many services to keep people safe" and "a long-term project". It added: "We are committed to building strong anti-abuse measures into our plans. "Facebook will continue to lead the industry in developing new ways to prevent, detect and respond to abuse." For information and support for those affected, visit the BBC's Action Line .FBI 'persuaded Apple to halt iCloud encryption' By Sam Shead 23 January 2020 Apple reportedly abandoned plans to let customers fully encrypt back-ups of their iPhones on the company's iCloud following pressure from the FBI. Full encryption involves converting data into code so it is impossible to access without a password. Apple was working on the feature in secret about two years ago, according to Reuters , which broke the news. But some suggest an alternative explanation is concern about users getting locked out of their accounts. At present, Apple can help a subscriber get back data created on a lost, damaged or stolen device, even if they have forgotten their account's credentials, since the company holds a copy of their iCloud encryption key. "If Apple were to implement end-to-end encryption for iCloud back-ups, there's no might about it - if the customer forgets their password, they would lose access to their data," wrote the blogger John Gruber . He noted that chief executive Tim Cook had given a similar explanation to Der Spiegel in October 2018 , when he had indicated that he believed his firm would "change this practice" at some point in the future when data-recovery would be controlled solely via users' devices. Complex password Reuters spoke to six sources, including former employees at Apple and the FBI. It said one ex-Apple worker had suggested the firm's legal department had ultimately "killed" the plan. "That person told Reuters the company did not want to risk being attacked by public officials for protecting criminals, sued for moving previously accessible data out of reach of government agencies or used as an excuse for new legislation against encryption," the news agency added. Reuters reporter Joseph Menn added that he "could not determine why exactly Apple" decided to abandon the encryption project. "Encrypting data is essential and companies usually offer help and support when protecting data, so this news comes as a shock to me," commented Jake Moore, a cyber-security expert at internet security and antivirus company ESET. "However, it doesn't mean your back-up and data can't be encrypted. "You will still be able to make an encrypted back-up on your home computer and store it there. "As always, users should also be reminded that their data needs to be protected with a strong and complex password. "The balance between law enforcement and tech companies protecting data comes into question quite often. "However, this balance is extremely difficult to fine-tune. "Typically, users want the easiest route if they care about their data security, so encryption should be handed to them on a plate." Shot dead Over the past seven years, Apple has responded to over 127,000 requests from US law enforcement agencies for information. Last week, the US Attorney General publicly requested Apple unlock two iPhones used by a Saudi Air Force officer who shot dead three Americans at a naval base in Pensacola, Florida, last month. And on 14 January, President Donald Trump accused Apple on Twitter of refusing to unlock phones used by "killers, drug dealers, and other violent criminal elements". We are helping Apple all of the time on TRADE and so many other issues, and yet they refuse to unlock phones used by killers, drug dealers  and other violent criminal elements. They will have to step up to the plate and help our great Country, NOW! MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 14, 2020 View original tweet on Twitter But Apple did in fact turn over the gunman's iCloud backups. "We reject the characterisation that Apple has not provided substantive assistance in the Pensacola investigation," Apple said on 13 January. "Our responses to their many requests since the attack have been timely, thorough and are ongoing."Facebook encryption threatens public safety, say ministers By Jane Wakefield 4 October 2019 Comments The home secretary says that if Facebook has a credible plan to protect its users then it is time to disclose the details UK Home Secretary Priti Patel and counterparts in the US and Australia have sent an open letter to Facebook calling on it to rethink its plans to encrypt all messages on its platforms. The policy threatens "lives and the safety of our children", they said. They said it could hamper international efforts to grant law enforcers faster access to private messages on social media, as agreed between the UK and US. Facebook said "people have the right to have a private conversation online." The head of Facebook-owned WhatsApp Will Cathcart had previously posted on Hacker News : "End-to-end encryption protects that right for over a billion people every day." Facebook said it is "consulting closely with child safety experts, governments and technology companies and devoting new teams and sophisticated technology" to keep people safe. The letter was signed by Ms Patel, the US Attorney General William P Barr, Acting US Homeland Security Secretary Kevin McAleenan and the Australian minister for Home Affairs Peter Dutton. It comes off the back of a data access agreement between the US and the UK  designed to remove the barriers to cross-border surveillance. It allows British law-enforcement agencies to demand from US tech firms data relating to terrorists, child-sexual abusers and other serious criminals. It is hoped it will dramatically speed up investigations - previously, the process of requesting data from US firms could take anything from six months to two years. What is encryption? Under the new agreement that could be cut to a matter of weeks or even days. But there is one major problem - messages sent over services using end-to-end encryption, such as WhatsApp, will remain unreadable. Privacy and safety Following scandals over the misuse of personal data, the social network has focused on privacy and it now offers encryption as an option to users on its Messenger service. It also has plans to introduce it to Instagram. "Tech companies like Facebook have a responsibility to balance privacy with the safety of the public," the letter read. It added: "So far nothing we have seen from Facebook reassures me that their plans for end-to-end encryption will not act as barrier to the identification and pursuit of criminals operating on their platforms. "Companies cannot operate with impunity where lives and the safety of our children is at stake, and if Mr Zuckerberg really has a credible plan to protect Facebook's more than two billion users, it's time he let us know what it is." In 2018, Facebook made 16.8 million reports of child sexual exploitation and abuse content to the US National Centre for Missing and Exploited Children, which the National Crime Agency estimates have led to more than 2,500 arrests and 3,000 children made safe. Head of online child safety at the NSPCC Tony Stower said: "It's an absolute scandal that Facebook are actively choosing to provide offenders with a way to hide in the shadows on their platform, seamlessly able to target, groom and abuse children completely undetected. "The landmark agreement between the US and UK on accessing data will radically reduce the time it takes for police to get hold of the data they need from tech giants to bring offenders to justice. "It should be a hugely important step forward in tackling online child abuse - if tech giants play their part too." Wire taps There has been some confusion about whether the Cloud Act could force firms such as Facebook to offer so-called back doors to law enforcement. In a series of tweets on the issue, Facebook's ex-technology officer Alex Stamos attempted to clarify. "This agreement would allow UK courts to issue requests equivalent to US courts, but it does not grant them access to anything a US court can't get already," he wrote. "Orders for wire taps of products like WhatsApp can get some data, like IP addresses, phone numbers, contact lists and avatar photos. It cannot get encrypted messages and attachments." A BBC investigation earlier this year found that encrypted apps were taking over from the dark web as a place to host criminals.Facebook encryption: Should governments be given keys to access our messages? By Jane Wakefield 6 October 2019 Home Secretary Priti Patel co-signed an open letter to Facebook Governments in the UK, US and Australia have asked Facebook, in an open letter , to roll back plans to bring end-to-end encryption to all of its platforms. Facebook, rocked by privacy scandals, responds that everyone has the right to a private conversation. It is the latest in an age-old battle between privacy and safety, which has played out between governments and tech firms ever since digital communication became mass market. What is end-to-end encryption? As the name suggests, this is a secure way of sending information so that only the intended receiver can read it. The information is encrypted while it is still on the sender's device and is only decrypted when it reaches the person intended. Nobody, not even the platform owner, has the keys to unlock it. It was introduced partly as a response to National Security Agency whistleblower Edward Snowden's revelations that the intelligence services in the UK and US had many ways to intercept communication and were doing so on a mass scale. Why has this become an issue now? The UK and the US have just signed an historic agreement to give each other a much faster way of getting hold of private conversations - cutting down the process time from months or years, to weeks or days. But that agreement could potentially be rendered a bit useless, if they cannot read the scrambled messages. Is there evidence encryption has hampered police enquiries? When the BBC asked the Home Office to provide examples, it could not do so. The real issue is the fact that Facebook will no longer be able to police its own content, it said. It pointed to the fact that last year Facebook sent 12 million reports of child exploitation or abuse to the US's National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, and it would no longer be able to do this if it had encryption on all its platforms. It is something that Facebook chief Mark Zuckerberg addressed directly in a Q&A with staff about the issue. "When we decided to go to end-to-end encryption across the different apps, this is one of the things that just weighed the most heavily on me," he said. "There is more stuff on basically being able to identify patterns of activity, especially around sharing child pornography, and things like this that are just terrible, that I think you can probably find through patterns of activity and that we are going to ramp up investment of," he added. He was keen to point out that the fact there was so much child abuse imagery reported via Facebook did not indicate that Messenger, the name of Facebook's direct messaging service, was the preferred platform for it, more that Facebook had become very good at finding it and sending it on. Would it be easy for Facebook to give police a backdoor? "A backdoor is rather like leaving a key under the mat - once someone knows it is there anyone can walk in," said Prof Alan Woodward, a security expert at the University of Surrey and a consultant to Europol. His words were echoed by human rights pressure group Amnesty International in its response . "Proposals for a 'backdoor' have repeatedly been shown to be unworkable. There is no middle ground: if law enforcement is allowed to circumvent encryption, then anybody can," it said. Governments could also ask the social network to change the technical architecture of its platforms so messages could be decrypted when they reached the server. But that would signal a return to days of mass surveillance, thinks Prof Woodward. "It's exactly what we had before Snowden's revelations and the reaction of the service providers was to introduce end-to-end encryption such that they could not disclose either the key or the decrypted message even if compelled to by law. The laws of mathematics currently trump the law of the land." And, of course, there is good old-fashioned policing - if the police request data from WhatsApp, they do get IP addresses, phone numbers and contact lists which could be useful in piecing together evidence, even without the full messagesAustralia data encryption laws explained 7 December 2018 Australian police can now order tech firms to access the encrypted messages of suspects Australia has passed controversial laws designed to compel technology companies to grant police and security agencies access to encrypted messages. The government says the laws, a world first, are necessary to help combat terrorism and crime. However critics have listed wide-ranging concerns, including that the laws could undermine the overall security and privacy of users. The laws were rushed through parliament on its final day of the year. The Labor opposition said it had reluctantly supported the laws to help protect Australians during the Christmas period, but on Friday it said that "legitimate concerns" about them remained. Cyber-security experts have warned the laws could now create a "global weak point" for companies such as Facebook and Apple. Why are encrypted messages an issue? Australia already has laws which require providers to hand over a suspect's communication to police. This may already be possible if a service provider uses a form of encryption that allows them to view a user's message. But in recent years, services such as WhatsApp, Signal and others have added an additional layer of security known as end-to-end encryption. End-to-end encryption allows only the sender and recipient to view a message, preventing it from being unscrambled by the service provider. Australia and other countries have said that terrorists and criminals exploit this technology to avoid surveillance. How would this change work? It differs from laws in China, Russia and Turkey, where services offering end-to-end encryption are banned. Under Australia's legislation, police can force companies to create a technical function that would give them access to encrypted messages without the user's knowledge. Only two MPs, Adam Bandt and Andrew Wilkie (left), voted against the bill "This ensures that our national security and law enforcement agencies have the modern tools they need, with appropriate authority and oversight, to access the encrypted conversations of those who seek to do us harm," Attorney-General Christian Porter said. However, cyber-security experts say it's not possible to create a "back door" decryption that would safely target just one person. "Any vulnerability would just weaken the existing encryption scheme, affecting security overall for innocent people," said Dr Chris Culnane from the University of Melbourne. Such a "security hole" could then be abused or exploited by criminals, he said. In a bid to address these concerns, Australia's law offers a safeguard which says decryptions won't go ahead if they create a "systemic weakness". However critics say the definition of "systemic weakness" is vague, meaning it is unclear how it may be applied. What are the other concerns? Digital rights advocates are highly critical of Australia's move, saying it lacks sufficient checks and balances. The Electronic Frontier Foundation has said police could order individual IT developers to create technical functions without their company's knowledge. "This has the potential for Australian tech firms to have no clue whether they were even subject to an order," the foundation's Nate Cardozo told the BBC. There is also criticism over how fast the laws were passed. A draft bill was presented only in August. A parliamentary committee examining the legislation did not release its report until late on Wednesday. Labor initially proposed 173 amendments to the bill, but agreed to drop them on Thursday so that the law would be passed this year. In return, the government pledged to debate possible amendments next year. But the nation's top legal society, the Law Council of Australia, said on Friday that the laws had been "rammed" through the parliament with inadequate consideration. What does it mean for tech firms? If companies don't comply with the laws, they risk being fined. That's led to speculation that some global firms which have vocally opposed the laws could withdraw from the Australian market. However, Dr Culnane said that most companies are likely to comply - partly because users won't be aware if their messages have been accessed. However, experts say the full implications are unclear and much uncertainty remains. Some firms have already suggested that they may not be subject to Australian law. Experts add that, given the debate involves national security, many aspects may play out behind closed doors. We are following the Australian #AAbill closely. The updated regulation does not address any of our #privacy concerns, which we explain here https://t.co/I2aXgPXMxj . ProtonMail users will not be impacted because as a Swiss company, we are not subject to Australian law. — ProtonMail (@ProtonMail) December 5, 2018 View original tweet on Twitter if the #aabill passes I just won't be able to work in Australia :( I have an ethical obligation to users of my software not to expose their data. Breaking all their crypto/security is just a non-starter. — Adam Chalmers (@adam_chal) December 4, 2018 View original tweet on TwitterMicrosoft hack: 3,000 UK email servers remain unsecured 12 March More than 3,000 UK email servers remain at risk from the global Microsoft Exchange email flaw, officials believe. The National Cyber Security Centre said it estimated 7,000 servers had been affected by the flaw in the UK and only half had been secured. It said malicious software had been detected on 2,300 machines but it had helped businesses remove it. The agency said it was "vital" that all affected businesses took action to secure their email servers. The announcement reveals the scale of the problem among UK companies for the first time since the global security flaw emerged last week. Ransomware groups have begun using the flaw to install their malicious programs, the NCSC warned - though there was no evidence of widespread ransomware attacks on UK companies so far. Once installed, ransomware locks away a user's data behind strong encryption, making the computer system unusable. The group then demands payment to unlock it - and if demands are not met, will steal or delete the data. Free-for-all The security flaw affects Microsoft's widely-used Exchange email system , which powers the email of major corporations, small businesses and public bodies worldwide. The NCSC is particularly concerned about small and medium-sized businesses that may not have heard about the issue. Initially, the flaw was being exploited by a hacking group to gain remote access to email servers, from which it could steal sensitive data. But after Microsoft warned the world it had identified the problem, and urged all its users to download the latest security updates, other hacking groups quickly became familiar with the flaw. The result is a widespread free-for-all as multiple hacking groups all try to find unpatched email servers to attack. "We are working closely with industry and international partners to understand the scale and impact of UK exposure, but it is vital that all organisations take immediate steps to protect their networks," NCSC's director for operations Paul Chichester warned. "While this work is ongoing, the most important action is to install the latest Microsoft updates." He also urged all organisations to "familiarise" themselves with the guidance surrounding ransomware attacks - and to search for any signs of their systems already being compromised. An emerging picture The true scale of this problem is still emerging with thousands of systems vulnerable in the UK alone. What is not yet entirely clear is the overall impact. While many systems are still at risk and thousands had malicious software installed, the number of cases where we know this was actually used to steal emails or lock people out with ransomware is still fairly low. That may change in the coming days as more reports come in. What is clear is that multiple hacking groups have piled in to exploit the vulnerability and those working on the defensive side are likely to stay busy for some time to come.Encrypted messaging puts children at risk, commissioner warns 8 December 2020 By age 12, 90% of children use an online messaging app - despite a 13+ age requirement Encryption of online messages could make it harder to police child abuse and grooming online, the children's commissioner for England has warned. End-to-end encryption is a privacy feature that makes it impossible for anyone except the sender and recipient to read messages sent online. Commissioner Anne Longfield said it also prevented police from gathering evidence to prosecute child abusers. But digital rights groups see it as an essential part of online privacy. Facebook, which is behind the most popular messaging apps children use, already offers end-to-end encryption for Whatsapp. It has added an opt-in version to its Messenger service, with plans to make it the default for all its platforms. That could include Instagram, which does not yet have it. Messaging strangers Ms Longfield's warning came as she launched a new report looking at how children used online messaging apps. It found the vast majority of children aged eight and over used some sort of messaging service. That includes 60% of eight-year-olds and 90% of 12-year-olds, despite the main such apps having an age restriction of at least 13, if not older. More than a third of children surveyed for the report said they had received a message that made them feel uncomfortable. One in 10 talk to strangers online, and one in 20 have shared videos or photos of themselves with strangers. Duty of care Ms Longfield said the report "shows how vigilant parents need to be, but also how the tech giants are failing to regulate themselves and so are failing to keep children safe". She is calling on the government to make the big tech firms responsible when it introduces the long-delayed Online Harms Bill, with large fines for companies that breach their "duty of care". She has warned against classifying encrypted messaging as "private communications". Doing so could offer an exemption for the tech giants on their duty of care, she said. That "could be a cynical attempt on the part of some tech firms to side-step sanctions and litigation" she warned. A spokesman for the Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport responded: "Children will be at the heart of our new online harms laws with tough sanctions on social media platforms that fail to protect young people from harm. "We are clear that firms should only implement end-to-end encryption if it can be done without preventing action against child abuse." Ever since Mark Zuckerberg announced in March 2019 that end-to-end encryption was going to become standard across Facebook's messaging platforms, the criticism of the plan has got ever louder. Mr Zuckerberg himself has admitted that the move could harm the fight against child abuse. "You're fighting that battle with at least a hand tied behind your back," he told a Facebook staff meeting. Now the Children's Commissioner has joined those warning of the damaging effects of making messages too secret. But her broadside may be aimed less at the tech firms than at the government, which she and other critics feel has dragged its heels on the issue of regulating online content. A year and a half after the publication of  the Online Harms White Paper, there is still no clarity about when it will be turned into law and what sort of sanctions might be in it. This week saw Labour's Margaret Hodge, a victim of online abuse, call for either an end to anonymity on social media or for directors of the platforms to be made liable for defamatory posts. The critics' shopping list for measures against the tech giants is getting longer. Meanwhile, ministers must try to work out what is practicable as well as desirable. The commissioner says that end-to-end encryption should not be applied at all to children's accounts, and that tech companies should "retain the ability to scan for child sexual abuse material". "It's time for the government to show it hasn't lost its nerve and that it is prepared to stand up to the powerful internet giants, who are such a big part in our children's lives," she said. What is encryption? Digital rights organisations, however, have long argued that encryption is essential. The Open Rights Group accuses the government of using the Online Harms Bill to weaken security for everyone, warning that a ban on encryption "would create a degree of surveillance and government intrusion that simply should not be tolerated in a democratic society". The Electronic Frontier Foundation , meanwhile, says encryption "is one of the most powerful tools individuals have for maintaining their digital privacy and security in an increasingly insecure world". Facebook, as the owner of three messaging apps, said that child exploitation has "no place on our platforms" and that it has been "developing news ways" to prevent and detect abuse. But it remains in favour of encryption, with added anti-abuse features. "End-to-end encryption is already the leading technology used by many services to keep people safe", a spokesman said. "Through a combination of advanced technology and user reports, WhatsApp bans around 250,000 accounts each month suspected of sharing child exploitative imagery."David Wilson: Sex offender who posed as girls online jailed for 25 years 10 February David Wilson posed as girls on Facebook, Instagram and Snapchat and then persuaded boys to send him sexual images of themselves A man who posed as teenage girls online and blackmailed 51 boys into sending him indecent images of themselves has been jailed for 25 years. David Wilson, 36, of Kirstead, King's Lynn, Norfolk, admitted 96 offences in November at Ipswich Crown Court. In some cases he threatened to share indecent images of the boys online unless they sent him footage of them abusing younger siblings or friends. The judge described Wilson as "extremely dangerous" and "sadistic". The court heard some of the children who were groomed to abuse others had been arrested and one was now in a children's home. David Wilson (pictured being arrested) blackmailed 51 boys into sending him indecent images Wilson's victims were aged between four and 14 and his crimes took place between 2016 and 2020, the National Crime Agency (NCA) said. He won their trust by sending sexual images of young women in exchange for photographs and videos of the victims themselves. Wilson then used these images to blackmail his victims into sending more extreme content. The NCA said he distributed images to some of his victims' friends, despite them begging him to stop, and some children spoke of wanting to end their lives as a result. Wilson, a roofer, contacted boys from social media accounts set up from his bedroom at his mother's Norfolk home 'Astonished at depravity' Sentencing, Judge Rupert Overbury described Wilson as a "serial paedophile" and "an extremely dangerous individual". "You carried out a lengthy and premeditated campaign of sadistic and manipulative abuse of young boys using social media," he said. "Any decent human being will be astonished at the level of depravity involved." One child was groomed while struggling with the effects of his father dying from cancer, the judge said. Another pleaded for Wilson to stop as his grandfather was about to die but this had no effect on his abuser, he added. Wilson pleaded guilty to 54 counts of causing or inciting a child under 13 to engage in sexual activity, 25 counts of causing or inciting a child to engage in sexual activity, 10 counts of causing a child to watch a sexual act, three counts of blackmail and four counts of arranging or facilitating the sexual exploitation of a child. He was ordered to serve a further eight years of extended licence once he is released from prison. Wilson threw a phone he used to contact his victims down a toilet when police arrested him Flagged by Facebook Officers began compiling intelligence on Wilson after Facebook identified 20 accounts of boys ranging from 12 to 15 years old, who had sent images of themselves to an account seemingly belonging to a 13-year-old girl. The mother of one of Wilson's victims spoke of her concern over Facebook's plan to bring in end-to-end encryption of messages on the platform. "I'm eternally grateful that David Wilson was caught," she said. "I think that if it becomes too difficult for law enforcement agencies to track these people then we won't be able to protect our children and people like him will be able to get away with it." A spokeswoman for Facebook said: "Child exploitation and grooming have no place on our platform. "Facebook has led the industry in developing new ways to prevent, detect, and respond to abuse and we will continue to work with law enforcement to combat criminal activity." Home Secretary Priti Patel said: "This sickening case is a chilling reminder of how crucial it is that tech companies play their part in combating child sexual abuse. "It is vital that Facebook do not press ahead without amending their current end-to-end-encryption plans, otherwise sick criminals like David Wilson could still be abusing children with impunity." CCTV footage showed Wilson buying a top-up voucher for a mobile phone linked to his offending Tony Cook, head of child sexual abuse operations at the NCA, said Wilson "preyed" on his victims' "vulnerability". "He groomed, bullied and blackmailed young boys into sending him indecent images and in some instances performing horrific abuse on themselves and others," he said. "Despite knowing their utter anguish and despair he ignored their pleas from him to stop." Mr Cook urged parents to speak to their children about who they communicate with online and understand "this can happen to anyone". Find BBC News: East of England on Facebook , Instagram and Twitter . If you have a story suggestion email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.ukMan denies role in sex club murder of Dutch crime writer 7 April Christopher Hughes, 32, faces three charges which span an eight-year period between December 2011 and January 2020. A Scottish man has denied being involved in serious organised crime, including the murder of a Dutch crime writer. Christopher Hughes, 32, faces three charges which span an eight-year period between December 2011 and January 2020. They include the killing of Martin Kok, 49, who was shot dead at a sex club in the Dutch town of Laren in 2016. Donald Findlay QC pled not guilty on behalf of Mr Hughes during a short hearing at the High Court in Glasgow. The indictment against Mr Hughes alleges he was involved with others in "serious organised crime" with locations including Scotland, Portugal, Spain, France, Germany, Italy as well as Holland. It is said he was involved in the importation of cocaine and possessed firearms with the intention of supplying weapons to individuals. The charge also claims Mr Hughes concealed money - described as "criminal property" - and that cash was used to pay for weddings, school fees, holidays, watches and cars. 'Encrypted' devices It is further stated "encrypted" devices - created to help hide illegal activities from the authorities - were supplied to others named in the charge, including the late Mr Kok. The second charge accuses Mr Hughes of being involved in the supply of cocaine. The final accusation details the alleged murder of Mr Kok in December 2016. Mr Hughes is alleged to have been involved in the killing with a named individual and others. Mr Findlay told the court investigations into the case were ongoing. No trial was set but Lady Stacey fixed another hearing for May.Russia to block Telegram app over encryption 13 April 2018 A court in Moscow has approved a request from the Russian media regulator to block the Telegram messaging app immediately. The media regulator sought to block the app because the firm had refused to hand over encryption keys used to scramble messages. Security officials say they need to monitor potential terrorists. But the company said the way the service was built meant it had no access to customers' encryption keys. Telegram had missed a deadline of 4 April to hand over the keys. Russia's main security agency, the FSB, has said Telegram is the messenger of choice for "international terrorist organisations in Russia". A suicide bomber who killed 15 people on a subway train in St Petersburg last April used the app to communicate with accomplices, the FSB said last year. The app is also widely used by the Russian authorities, Reuters news agency reports. What is encryption? In its court filing, media regulator Roskomnadzor said Telegram had failed to comply with its legal requirements as a "distributor of information". Telegram's lawyer, Pavel Chikov, said the official attempt to stop the app being used in Russia was "groundless". "The FSB's requirements to provide access to private conversations of users are unconstitutional, baseless, which cannot be fulfilled technically and legally," he said. A suicide bomber who killed 15 people in St Petersburg last year used Telegram to communicate with accomplices, the FSB said The messaging app is widely used across Russia and many nations in the Middle East, as well as around the rest of the world. It says it has more than 200 million active users. Its popularity has grown because of its emphasis on encryption, which thwarts many widely used methods of reading confidential communications. It allows groups of up to 5,000 people to send messages, documents, videos and pictures without charge and with complete encryption. Telegram has been used by the Islamic State (IS) group and its supporters though the company says it has made efforts to close down pro-IS channels.Encryption on Facebook Messenger and other chat apps 21 March 2018 Facebook has a stored copy of your private messages because it doesn't use end-to-end encryption - and it's not the only one. Encryption scrambles messages so that if they're intercepted while being delivered they cannot be read. Most messaging services use a level of encryption, but there are different types. Twitter, Instagram and Snapchat are other services that don't use end-to-encryption. Facebook Messenger encrypts messages by default from the sender to its server, and then encrypts them again between the server and the recipient. End-to-end encryption, used by WhatsApp, doesn't have the stop in between. What is encryption? Usually the only people with the 'key' to decipher an end-to-end encrypted message are the sender and the intended recipient. The messaging service can't read the message. It's particularly useful for sending sensitive information like bank details, which you wouldn't want to fall into the wrong hands or be stored anywhere online. The reason some are arguing it's a bad thing There's been a big discussion about end-to-end encryption and the problems it causes for policing. Khalid Masood accessed WhatsApp moments before he killed four people in the Westminster terror attack. He also used iMessage and SMS. After the attack, Home Secretary Amber Rudd called it "completely unacceptable" that the security services couldn't access some of the content - and said "there should be no place for terrorists to hide ". At the time, a WhatsApp spokeswoman said the company was "horrified at the attack" and was co-operating with the investigation. But since then, Amber Rudd has repeated her call for messaging services to work more closely with government to stop criminals misusing apps. Chats on WhatsApp are encrypted end-to-end by default Whatsapp, which is owned by Facebook, added end-to-end encryption by default in 2016, with Facebook saying that protecting private communication was one of its "core beliefs". But its native Facebook Messenger doesn't have the same levels of security. You have to specifically enable something called "secret conversation" within the Messenger app in order for your conversations to have end-to-end encryption. Enabling end-to-encryption on Facebook Messenger Facebook-owned Instagram does not use end-to-end encryption on the photo-sharing app, which introduced private messaging in 2013. Twitter doesn't either, while there's nothing on Snapchat's website to suggest messages on the app are completely encrypted. Its support page does say that most messages are deleted from its servers after a maximum 30 days. And Skype, which also has no information on end-to-end encryption on its website, has been trialling a "private conversation" option with some users. Newsbeat has contacted Snapchat and Skype for clarification. So what does use end-to-end encryption? Well, as mentioned above the main player in end-to-end encrypted messaging is WhatsApp, but Apple also uses it. Its 'approach to privacy' document says it "uses end-to-end encryption to protect your iMessage and FaceTime conversations" across all devices. But Apple also allows users to send messages as a text if the iMessage won't go through, and text messages are not end-to-end encrypted. A lot of messaging services, like iMessage, allow you to back up to the cloud, which gives those cloud services access to your messages. Follow Newsbeat on Instagram , Facebook and Twitter . Listen to Newsbeat live at 12:45 and 17:45 every weekday on BBC Radio 1 and 1Xtra - if you miss us you can listen back here .Message encryption a problem - Rudd Dave Lee 1 August 2017 Comments WATCH: Home Secretary Amber Rudd wants harmful content to be auto-blocked The major technology companies must step up their fight against extremism or face new laws, the home secretary has told the BBC. Amber Rudd said technology companies were not doing enough to beat “the enemy” on the internet. Encryption tools used by messaging apps had become a “problem”, she added. Ms Rudd is meeting with representatives from Google, Facebook, Twitter, Microsoft and others at a counter-terrorism forum in San Francisco. Tuesday’s summit is the first gathering of the Global Internet Forum to Counter Terrorism, an organisation set up by the major companies in the wake of recent terror attacks. In a joint statement, the companies taking part said they were co-operating to “substantially disrupt terrorists' ability to use the internet in furthering their causes, while also respecting human rights”. Ms Rudd is expected to tell companies that extremists should not be allowed to upload content at all. "That’s what we’re really trying to achieve," she told the BBC. "What [technology companies] have been saying to us is using artificial intelligence, they’re beginning to make progress in that way.” Privacy rights group the Electronic Frontier Foundation has expressed concern about the possibility of heavy-handed blocking of content. It said such a move would have a significant impact on free speech online. Encryption - a common feature of business and personal communications - was "the duct-tape that holds the internet together", said Ross Anderson, cryptography expert at the University of Cambridge. He added that he was worried authorities and Silicon Valley firms were making an agreement behind closed doors that would ultimately undermine security. End-to-end In recent years, messaging services, including Facebook, Apple, and Google, have adopted end-to-end encryption, an added layer of complexity that makes it almost impossible for messages to be accessed without a user’s permission. The measure has been heralded by the technology companies as a vital tool for privacy. But authorities around the world say end-to-end encryption has created unreachable parts of the internet. What is encryption? Ms Rudd told the BBC that the UK government supported encryption, with caveats. "We support its place in making sure that we have secure facilities in our daily lives,” the home secretary said. "However, there is a problem in terms of the growth of end-to-end encryption. "It’s a problem for the security services and for police who are not, under the normal way, under properly warranted paths, able to access that information. “We want [technology companies] to work more closely with us on end-to-end encryption, so that where there is particular need, where there is targeted need, under warrant, they share more information with us so that we can access it.” She said companies should give up more metadata about messages being sent via their services. Metadata refers to information about a conversation - such as who took part, when and for how long - but not the contents itself. When pressed on what kind of metadata she wanted, she replied: “I’m having those conversations in private.” Technology companies are likely to resist any action that would result in them being seen to be sharing too much data with governments. In an interview with BBC Radio 4's Desert Island Discs programme, Facebook's chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, warned about pushing criminals into even harder to reach parts of the internet. "If people move off those encrypted services to go to encrypted services in countries that won't share the metadata, the government actually has less information, not more," she said. Blocking uploads Ms Rudd said if the companies did not take it upon themselves to clamp down on the spread of extremist content, new legislation could be introduced. “None of this material should be online. They need to take ownership over making sure it isn’t,” Ms Rudd told the BBC. "It’s governments that need to urge them to really take action so that we don’t have to go down the road of legislation - and get them to do it on a voluntary but urgent basis. “Legislation is always an alternative.” Specifically, the home secretary said, companies must seek to block material at source - building on efforts already put in place by companies such as Facebook. “They have to make sure the material terrorists want to put up gets taken down,” she said, "or, even better, doesn’t go up in the first place." David Greene, from the Electronic Frontier Foundation, said rights campaigners were concerned this approach would lead to content being blocked incorrectly. “We’re concerned that it’s going to lead to more takedowns,” he said, "not more terrorist content but more content that’s mistaken for terrorist content being taken down.” ___________ Follow Dave Lee on Twitter @DaveLeeBBC You can reach Dave securely through encrypted messaging app Signal on: +1 (628) 400-7370Spy agency turns to AI to tackle child abuse Gordon Corera @gordoncorera 24 February GCHQ, headquartered in Cheltenham, said AI could become a key tool in its fight against a range of issues UK intelligence agency GCHQ intends to use artificial intelligence to tackle issues from child sexual abuse to disinformation and human trafficking. The UK's adversaries were already using the technology, it said. The agency has published a paper , Ethics of AI: Pioneering a New National Security, saying the technology will be put at the heart of its operations. And officials say it will help analysts spot patterns hidden inside large - and fast growing - amounts of data. This could include: But it cannot predict human behaviour such as moving towards executing a terrorist attack. The paper also sets out how GCHQ wants to support the AI sector, including setting up an industry-facing AI lab from its Manchester office, dedicated to prototyping projects and mentoring start-ups. And GCHQ says it details how it will ensure it uses AI fairly and transparently, including: It is a sign the agency wants to avoid a repeat of criticism people were unaware how it used data, following whistleblower Edward Snowden's revelations. "While this unprecedented technological evolution comes with great opportunity, it also poses significant ethical challenges for all of society, including GCHQ," the agency's director, Jeremy Fleming, said. "Today, we are setting out our plan and commitment to the ethical use of AI in our mission. "I hope it will inspire further thinking at home and abroad about how we can ensure fairness, transparency and accountability to underpin the use of AI." It comes as the government prepares to publish its Integrated Review into security, defence, development and foreign policy, in which technology, including AI, is expected to play a central role. GCHQ outlined areas where adversaries were already using AI, including: Adversaries are already using AI to create deepfakes and spread disinformation, GCHQ says Foreign-state disinformation A growing number of states are using AI to automate the production of false content to affect public debate, including "deepfake" video and audio, GCHQ warns. The technology can individually target and personalise this content or spread it through chatbots or by interfering with social-media algorithms. But it could also help GCHQ detect and fact-check it and identify "troll farms" and botnet accounts. Child sex abuse GCHQ says AI could: Cyber-threats Increasingly used to automate cyber-attacks, AI could also help identify malicious software and attackers as they continually develop new tactics to breach systems and steal data, GCHQ says. Trafficking Organised crime groups are becoming increasingly sophisticated in their use of technology, including encryption tools, the dark web and cryptocurrency, GCHQ says. But AI could help:Technology and science move to the heart of UK security Gordon Corera @gordoncorera 17 March National power will be defined not by the number of tanks and ships a country possesses but by its science and technology, and the quality of its algorithms. That is the message of the UK's Integrated Review, which says the government's aim is for the country to become an innovation "superpower" by 2030. "This will be essential in gaining economic, political and security advantages in the coming decade," it says. It marks a major strategic shift in thinking. But delivery will not be straightforward. US v China A global tech race is heating up. China this month announced its latest five-year plan, including significant increases in research and development spending. It highlighted seven areas including: The Biden administration, meanwhile, is focusing on maintaining America's edge. The ability to make the latest computer chips is one of both the US and China's key tech strategies A report this month led by former Google chief executive Eric Schmidt focused on the security risks of falling behind China in AI. Strategic advantage Wars of the future may involve AI algorithms battling each other. The first nation to master this and other technologies may not just have a significant military advantage on the battlefield, but also in protecting its people at home and in spurring economic growth. That is why the UK's review says its "first goal" is growing the UK's science and technology power "in pursuit of strategic advantage". "We need to generate strength through technological innovation," former MI6 Chief Alex Younger told the BBC. More cyber-attacks Some of this focuses on traditional areas. At least £6.6bn of defence funding over the next four years will go on research and development. Some of this will support industries in particular regions of the UK - a sign of the fusing of security and economic priorities. In addition, a national space strategy will be launched, as well as a new cyber-strategy that could see more frequent use of offensive capabilities by the new National Cyber Force. UK investment will be dwarfed by China and the US. But the ambition is that a more activist, industrial policy can create "thriving ecosystems" in crucial areas. Gene-edited troops Three fields are picked out for case studies. One is quantum computing, where the review argues the UK is "well placed to emerge as a global leader". The much-heralded quantum breakthrough will offer major advantages to those who get there first. This includes one field governments do not talk about: breaking the encryption which keeps messages secret. A quantum computer could theoretically unscramble many of today's encrypted communications Another is engineering biology - the design and redesign of biological systems through techniques like gene editing. This has potential for health and environmental benefits but also, as the report notes, defence and security. US intelligence officials have suggested China was exploring gene-editing its soldiers to improve their performance. The third is AI. The UK is home to cutting-edge research. But critics also say it highlights some of the historic problems in commercialising domestic innovation. London-based DeepMind is world-class, but sold itself to Google. The US may be a close ally, but there are still officials who believe the shift of ownership represented a strategic loss. Revolving door The failure to take UK research and grow tech giants from it is not a new problem. The UK built the first semi-programmable computer in World War Two to break codes at Bletchley Park. But it did so in secret and the computing industry it led to has been limited in terms of scale. By contrast the US, with a revolving door between government and the private sector, massive investment from the Pentagon and spy agencies, and a larger domestic market, created Silicon Valley. There is also a question about where it will be practical to try to convince what is a highly international workforce at UK companies and universities, to work on defence and security-related projects. In the US, a staff revolt led Google to pull out of Project Maven which wanted to use AI to tag objects in drone-collected video. Other US companies have been more willing to work with the Pentagon. Microsoft and Amazon both bid for the Pentagon's AI-focused Jedi contract But copying the military-civil fusion that China talks about may not be either desirable or possible. Lessons from Huawei One criticism of the review is that it tries to have it both ways with China - stressing the need to be open to Beijing for trade and investment, while also engaging in systemic competition. This is not always easy. Last year's decision to effectively kick out Huawei from 5G telecoms showed hard choices are sometimes involved. In areas like 5G, the focus today is not just on developing cutting-edge technology, but also in setting global standards and rules for the future. And here China has invested heavily. The UK will need to work hard with allies to catch up and convince other countries to share its vision. That is just one of the areas where becoming a science and tech superpower may be a tough promise to deliver on.US voices frustration with 'warrant-proof' encryption 13 October 2017 Comments The US deputy attorney general says the use of "warrant-proof encryption" in popular apps and operating systems, is hampering law enforcement. Several apps encrypt communications end-to-end, which stop messages being legible if intercepted by criminals or law enforcement. In a speech, Rod Rosenstein said law enforcers were increasingly thwarted by such encryption. He met Home Secretary Amber Rudd on Thursday to discuss the issue. He will also meet the head of the UK's GCHQ intelligence agency. "Increasingly, the tools we use to collect evidence run up against encryption tools which are designed to defeat them," said Mr Rosenstein, speaking at the Global Cyber Security Summit in London. What is encryption? He said the United States was "co-ordinating with our foreign partners as to what the challenges are". With end-to-end encryption, messages are scrambled when they leave the sender's device and are decrypted only on the receiver's device. It means service providers such as WhatsApp cannot hand over a legible copy of a suspect's messages to law enforcement, because they do not have one. Mr Rosenstein said technology companies often "resisted co-operating with governments". Ms Rudd has also described encryption tools used by messaging apps as a "problem". In August, she met representatives from Google, Facebook, Twitter, Microsoft and others at a counter-terrorism forum in San Francisco. She called on companies to work "more closely" with the government but said she did not want to "weaken encryption".WhatsApp to go ahead with changes despite backlash 19 February Millions of users flocked to other messaging platforms in January WhatsApp is pushing ahead with controversial changes to its terms of service, but altering the way it notifies users following a backlash. After its first announcement in January, millions of users downloaded apps from WhatsApp's competitors. The Facebook-owned platform previously said it had been the victim of "misinformation" around the change. But WhatsApp now says it has "reflected" on how it could have explained the changes better. The phrasing of the warning in the initial push led to widespread fears that it was going to share large amounts of WhatsApp data with Facebook. In reality, very little had changed in that area - and almost all users had previously accepted the type of data sharing involved. As part of its second attempt to convince users, WhatsApp will begin displaying a banner alert within the app in the coming weeks. The in-app banner will lead to more detailed explanations for users It encourages users to learn more about the update and what is - and is not - changing. Messages informing users of the update will also be displayed in the status section of the app. The new terms are scheduled to come into effect on 15 May. Down to business WhatsApp says the data it shares with its parent company does not include messages, groups or call logs. Instead, it says the new terms focus on changes to allow users to message businesses. WhatsApp already shares information with Facebook, such as your IP address and information about your phone, as well as purchases made via the platform. However this does not apply in Europe and the UK, where different privacy laws exist. But privacy experts say the saga highlights how unaware users are of how their data is being used. "In its efforts to clarify that [it] isn't doing anything wrong, Whatsapp has in fact inadvertently highlighted that it was already harvesting huge amounts of data for Facebook," said Ray Walsh, a digital privacy expert at ProPrivacy. That "vindicates" those who decided to leave Whatsapp, he said. "The biggest takeaway from all of this is that Whatsapp was already harvesting device level identifiers, IP addresses, and purchase info on behalf of Facebook - and that until recent media attention, the general public was largely unaware." Whatsapp said it had "reflected on what we could have done better here". “We want everyone to know our history of defending end-to-end encryption, and trust we’re committed to protecting people’s privacy and security." It also said it will "be doing much more" to be clear about changes in the future. In January, government officials in India asked the messaging giant to withdraw its planned changes. The country is currently WhatsApp's largest market with more than 340 million users.David Wilson: The King's Lynn roofer who lured sex victims by posing as a girl By Laurence Cawley and Jo Black 10 February From his bedroom in Kirstead, King's Lynn, David Wilson built a web of false personas to target thousands of children both in the UK and abroad They were lured in by messages seemingly from a teenage girl. From there, the young victims were not only enticed into sharing sexualised images of themselves but in some cases blackmailed to commit abuse by proxy on their younger siblings. How was David Wilson - the man behind the teenage girl mask - eventually caught? David Wilson, a roofer who lived at his mother's Norfolk home, was "one of the most prolific offenders" the National Crime Agency (NCA) had ever come across. From his bedroom in Kirstead in King's Lynn, the 36-year-old built a web of false personas to target thousands of children both in the UK and abroad. At Ipswich Crown Court on Wednesday, Wilson was sentenced to 25 years for 96 child sex offences . As many as 500 victims sent him images. One of them told the BBC how they felt "trapped inside his game". And yet the first concerns about Wilson's behaviour came not from the victims themselves, or from police intelligence - but from a Facebook algorithm. Those involved in bringing him to justice now fear whether Facebook plans to use end-to-end encryption might mean people like Wilson might evade justice in the future. The crimes Wilson blackmailed and coerced his victims, said National Crime Agency director Rob Jones Wilson's modus operandi was deception and blackmail. He created fake personas of young girls and then used pre-paid mobile telephones to target boys, the majority of whom were aged between 11 and 13 years old, via social media. "Once he made contact, he coerced those children to abuse themselves or others and produce images of that abuse," said Rob Jones, director of the National Crime Agency. "As soon as Wilson established a relationship he would incite and blackmail and really try to establish control over that child by threatening them to a whole range of different tactics which were designed to allow him to control the child to commit abuse and and to victimise other children." Once he had a compromising image of a child, Wilson would then use it to blackmail the victim into sending increasingly extreme imagery of themselves or, in some cases, to commit sexual abuse - or "contact offending by proxy" - on their siblings. One of his victims was just four years old. "It is happening in people's homes - created by people like Wilson, who is able to do it remotely because of access to social media platforms and the use of false personas," said Mr Jones. The case against him involved 51 boys. But officers unearthed hundreds of victims who had been lured into sending images of themselves by Wilson. "Those he was abusing had no idea who he was," said Mr Jones. By the time Wilson was charged, officers had evidence of seven fake female identities, 14 separate social media accounts and five pre-paid mobile telephones. All had one user - David Wilson. One of the victims said Wilson continued to increase his abusive behaviour, despite knowing how frightened they were 'I was very, very scared' One of his victims is now 16 years old. He was 11 when he was first contacted by Wilson. "I was completely unaware of dangerous people online and in the world," the boy said. When he set up his social media account he had a number of friends on there - and a girl purporting to be about 12 years old. "She contacted me and I had a look at her account to see what she looked like. She looked like a normal girl, about my age, and it didn't concern me, and she also talked and approached me in a way that was very normal," he said. "It didn't alarm me so I decided to carry on talking to her thinking it was just a girl my age. Over time, I was attracted to this person who I thought was a pretty young girl, but as it progressed I began to feel very alarmed by the way they started to talk to me. "I was concerned that this wasn't a girl and I was very scared. I kept on asking him to leave me alone and the only way he would leave me alone was if I sent him indecent images." In a desperate bid to free himself from Wilson, the boy agreed to send some sexual images of himself. Two years later the boy was approached by a second "girl" online. The boy asked her to leave him alone but the "girl" refused and said they had indecent images of him from two years ago. "I was very, very scared," the boy said. "She requested more indecent images and if not [supplied] she would spread it all across the internet, despite knowing I was extremely frightened. "I was trapped inside his game." Tony Cook, the NCA's head of child exploitation and online protection, said: "These children and their families had their lives turned upside down - some of them never recover psychologically. "I must pay tribute to the bravery of the people who came forward. They've been very patient with us. "He was getting them to do very, very depraved and degrading acts. "It doesn't bear thinking about what he was having those children do." The algorithm Tony Cook described Wilson as "despicable" The social media giant Facebook uses an algorithm to "scan" messages sent over its platform. "They are able to detect the type of behaviour in messaging and in the exchange of images which is indicative as the sexual abuse of children," said Mr Jones. "They are really, really good at that." Intelligence from Facebook was shared with the NCA in 2017 which identified 20 accounts of boys aged between 12 and 15 years old sending indecent images of themselves to an account of a 13-year-old girl. Wilson's case was one of 90 referrals made to the NCA from Facebook, via the US National Centre for Missing and Exploited Children . From the information from Facebook, detectives were able to put together their case. The IP addresses used to commit the crimes were linked to his mother's home. They had CCTV footage of him buying a top-up voucher for a phone linked to one of his fake accounts. And when he was arrested in August 2017, the telephone used to commit some of the offences was found hidden in his bedroom. But at that stage, the full scale of Wilson's offending remained unclear. Officers wanted to examine evidence from his Snapchat, Google and Instagram accounts too. That involved filing an International Letter of Request to the US authorities. It was nearly two years before the NCA received its data trove from the US. It contained more than 250,000 messages for detectives to pore over. It revealed Wilson's victims lived across the UK, the US and Australia. Could he have been stopped earlier? All 96 offences Wilson (pictured at the moment of his fourth arrest) admitted at court in November 2020, happened after he was first arrested by Norfolk Police on 4 April, 2015. By the time Wilson was charged for crimes committed between 2016 and 2020, he had been arrested on four separate occasions. He admitted to all 96 offences at Ipswich Crown Court in November 2020, but all those crimes took place after he was first arrested by Norfolk Police on 4 April 2015. That arrest was connected with two counts of possessing indecent images of children. No action at that stage was taken by police. Responding to the BBC's questions about that first arrest, a spokesperson for Norfolk Constabulary said: "Officers carried out a search of the property and investigated the matter, however found no evidence to link him to the crimes and consequently no action was taken. "Due to ongoing concerns around safeguarding, he was subject to further measures through a multi-agency Local Authority Designated Officer meeting where a referral was made to the Disclosure and Barring Service. "This meant employers would be informed of the concerns and the Football Association were also made aware as he had connections to children's football." But it did not stop his offending - not even after the National Crime Agency got involved. The NCA arrested Wilson three times during its three-year investigation - in August 2017, January 2018 and finally in April 2020. "He continued to offend even when we'd arrested him. And we arrested him three times, so he was a pretty determined individual," said Mr Cook of the NCA. "He's been grooming and preying on very vulnerable young children and getting them to send him very indecent imagery of themselves and doing very degrading acts and then blackmailing them. "I don't think you get more despicable than that, do you?" But the NCA said it was not in a position to charge him before 2020. "When you're dealing with somebody who has given a fake identification we have to be 100% certain that that person we arrest and charge is the person who is behind the fake identities," said Mr Cook. "That takes a lot of time. It is just one of those things - you've got to piece together the evidence like a jigsaw puzzle until you can prove that the fake identities are linked to David Wilson." The NCA now feared whether it will be able to bring people like Wilson to justice in the future. Its concerns, the agency said, stem from proposals within Facebook to use end-to-end encryption in its Messenger platform. Mr Jones said had such encryption been in place in 2017 it would have been "highly unlikely" Wilson would have been caught. "Had that content been end-end-encrypted, there is a real risk that justice would not have been served and Wilson would still be abusing victims today," he said. A spokesman for Facebook said: "Facebook has led the industry in developing new ways to prevent, detect, and respond to abuse and we will continue to work with law enforcement to combat criminal activity." The company told the BBC child exploitation had "no place" on its platforms and said it would "build on" the "strong anti-abuse capabilities" of one of its platforms (WhatsApp) when it rolled out end-to-end encryption in its other messaging services. Find BBC News: East of England on Facebook , Instagram and Twitter . If you have a story suggestion email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.ukSouth Tyneside men arrested as drugs gang 'dismantled' 2 April National Crime Agency officers searched a number of addresses A gang selling ecstasy around the world on the dark web has been "dismantled", police have said. Two men from South Tyneside have been arrested on suspicion of importing and supplying drugs. The National Crime Agency (NCA) has been investigating after parcels of MDMA destined for Europe, Asia and the USA were intercepted last summer. Operations manager Martin Clarke said the gang had been "preying on the vulnerable and destroying communities". "This investigation shows that those who try to use the dark web and encrypted communication devices to anonymously commit crimes can be identified," he said. Drugs with a street value of £4.3m had been recovered, including MDMA, amphetamines and more than 6,000 Diazepam (alprazolam) tablets, the agency said. Cryptocurrency money laundering Officers seized mobile phones, computers and drug packaging paraphernalia. Encrypted messages were analysed to identify those selling drugs and laundering money using cryptocurrency. The drugs were being imported from Holland and then sold on the dark web under four names: HundredsUK, Hundredsandthousands, Sundaefundae, and 100and1000s. Two men, aged 24 and 31, have been arrested in South Shields and Hebburn on suspicion of importing and supplying Class A, B and C drugs. Officers searched other addresses in South Shields and an address in Epsom, Surrey. The agency was still looking for two people from South Shields who are believed to be overseas, it said. Follow BBC North East & Cumbria on Twitter , Facebook and Instagram . Send your story ideas to northeastandcumbria@bbc.co.uk .Is quantum encryption the key to cyber-security? Cyber-security has become an increasing concern following a number of recent high profile computer hacking cases around the world. Quantum encryption could offer much more security. But how close are we to quantum computing becoming the norm? BBC Click finds out more. 31 August 2017 BBC News TechnologyBrexit deal mentions Netscape browser and Mozilla Mail By Cristina Criddle 29 December 2020 James Barksdale was the CEO of Netscape from 1995 until the company merged with AOL in March 1999 References to decades-old computer software are included in the new Brexit agreement, including a description of Netscape Communicator and Mozilla Mail as being "modern" services. Experts believe officials must have copied and pasted chunks of text from old legislation into the document. The references are on page 921 of the trade deal , in a section on encryption technology. It also recommends using systems that are now vulnerable to cyber-attacks. The text cites "modern e-mail software packages including Outlook, Mozilla Mail as well as Netscape Communicator 4.x." The latter two are now defunct - the last major release of Netscape Communicator was in 1997 . Just in case you forget what Netscape Communicator 4.0 looked like ... pic.twitter.com/573xNdN3ZH — Prof B Buchanan OBE (@billatnapier) December 26, 2020 View original tweet on Twitter The document also recommends using 1024-bit RSA encryption and the SHA-1 hashing algorithm , which are both outdated and vulnerable to cyber-attacks. "It's clear that something is amiss in the drafting of this treaty, and we'd go so far as to venture the opinion that a tired civil servant simply cut-and-pasted from a late-1990s security document," news site Hackaday commented. Several people have suggested the words were copied from a 2008 EU law , which includes the same text. 'Little excuse' Prof Bill Buchanan, a cryptography expert at Edinburgh Napier University, said there was "little excuse" for the outdated references. "I believe this looks like a standard copy-and-paste of old standards, and with little understanding of the technical details. "The text is full of acronyms, and it perhaps needs more of a lay person's explanation to define the requirements." Although SHA-1 and 1024-bit RSA "were a good selection a decade or so ago, they are no longer up to modern security standards," he added. A round-up of the Brexit trade agreement The Brexit negotiations finally ended on Christmas Eve, with a deal which was more than 1,200 pages long. Ambassadors from the 27 EU member states have unanimously approved the EU-UK post-Brexit trade deal. The UK Parliament is expected to approve it on Wednesday, paving the way for it to take effect provisionally on 1 January ahead of a European Parliament vote. The Home Office said the paragraphs "set out the legally prescribed measures for cooperation." "We currently use the latest technology to share this data, which is properly protected and in line with the guidance from the National Cyber Security Centre," a spokesman added.Lockdown bomb hoaxer targeted NHS, MPs and BLM protests By Tom Symonds 26 February The hoaxer's targets included UK hospitals during the first lockdown An Italian man in Germany has been sentenced to three years in prison for threatening to bomb NHS hospitals, Black Lives Matter rallies and UK MPs. Emil Apreda, 33, sent emails from Berlin demanding £10m worth of Bitcoin to not carry out the attacks. The National Crime Agency said he made his threats in the spring and summer of 2020 as the NHS struggled with Covid. Senior officers kept the threats from the public for fear of patients being scared into not attending hospitals. Apreda used encryption techniques and the dark web in an attempt to hide his identity, but police brought in behavioural, linguistics and cyber-crime experts to track him down. He sent emails to the NHS pretending to be a far-right activist linked to the neo-Nazi group Combat 18, but police believe that was just a ruse to instil fear. He was finally identified by German detectives and armed officers raided his home in Berlin on 15 June last year. 'Heightened anxiety' For the first time, the NCA has revealed details of the case, calling it "one of the most significant threats we've seen for some time" which took place at a time of "deep and heightened anxiety" in the UK. Tim Court, the NCA's head of investigations, said the content of the emails was "so threatening and so damaging" that it was only disclosed to a "very tight circle of people - and I mean very tight" within the police and government. Meanwhile, security at hospitals was quietly stepped up. Mr Court said the risks were both of loss of life and a loss of confidence in the NHS. "At the height of this, we were losing nearly nearly 1,000 people a day - and for six weeks we're trying to manage somebody who could have been planting a bomb in a hospital, somewhere in the UK." A particular concern was that many patients were on ventilators or oxygen at the time, and it would have been more difficult to get them out of a hospital in the event of a credible bomb threat. The extortion campaign started on 26 April when Apreda sent an email to the NHS, making his demand for Bitcoin and warning that he would send a bomb in a package to a hospital in the UK if he was not paid. This was followed by an identical email to an NCA control centre, followed by 16 more over six weeks. During that period, the death of George Floyd in the US and resulting protests in the UK prompted threats from him to blow up Black Lives Matter demonstrations. Threats were also made against Black Lives Matter protests Finally, as the fourth anniversary of the murder of Labour MP Jo Cox by a far-right activist approached, he emailed that he would kill MPs - but did not name any. Police behavioural and linguistics experts drew up a profile of the extortionist, who they decided was not from the UK. Police say further "technical leads" pointed to Germany. He was finally identified by LKA, the German CID. Jo Cox was the Labour MP for Batley and Spen Apreda had been issuing deadlines for payment after which he said he would attack, so the day before the anniversary of Ms Cox's death, German police moved in, blowing open the front door of his Berlin flat and arresting him. Police say he has background in computing, but they have discovered no links to Combat 18, despite his claims. The far-right group has been active in the UK in the past, but now exists mainly in the US and Germany. Apreda was charged and convicted of extortion in Germany, but the NCA said he could have faced terrorism charges if he had been brought to the UK. The NCA  said he had no links that they could find with Britain, and therefore extraditing him had not been possible. It denied Brexit had been a major factor.End-to-end encryption back door 'a bad idea' The former head of GCHQ has said that cooperation between government agencies and private companies is the best solution "to target the people who are abusing encryption systems." Robert Hannigan warned on the Today programme that "building back doors" in encryption systems was "a threat to everybody" and suggested that the government and private companies work more closely together to tackle the problem. 10 July 2017 BBC News TechnologyNewry man Gary McGeown in court after 'huge cannabis seizure' 1 April Police seized suspected herbal cannabis during a search in Newry this week A Newry businessman has appeared in court after suspected herbal cannabis worth up to £10m was seized during a search at a haulage yard. Gary McGeown, 34, of Belfast Road, in Newry, County Down, appeared at court in Newry via video-link. He is facing a number of drugs charges as well as a charge of converting criminal property. Deputy District Judge Trevor Browne refused bail, stating that it is "too dangerous" to consider at this time. The court heard that the charges arise from a search of Mr McGeown's business premises on Tuesday. Prosecution barrister Robin Steer told the court that during the search of a trailer containing ceramic tiles, police found bags of suspected cannabis. Some of the bags were found in what were described as "hides" inside the tile boxes. The prosecution said that there were also empty boxes with hides found in the haulage yard. A search of Mr McGeown's home was also conducted. A police officer told the court that during this search, three chargers for what police believe was an encrypted phone were found. A phone was not found. The court heard that data obtained by French authorities had been passed to the National Crime Agency (NCA) and subsequently to the Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) which they believe connects Mr McGeown to the use of an encrypted phone. The prosecution objected to bail stating that their main concern is the potential "obstruction of the police investigation". 'Nothing to hide' A defence barrister said that Mr McGeown had co-operated fully during interview. He said that he had answered every question put to him and  "had exhibited the actions of a man with nothing to hide". The defence barrister added: "In terms of interfering with the investigation, the police already have everything. "He has given them access to CCTV and passcodes for phones. "He has nothing to do with the contents of the trailer." However, Deputy District Judge Trevor Browne refused bail stating that it is "too dangerous at this stage to consider bail". Mr McGeown is to appear in court again on 28 April.Encrypted phone cracked to convict drug dealer 18 August 2020 Heroin and cocaine worth £1.3m were found at a flat linked to Collin A drug dealer caught after police cracked an encrypted phone full of damning messages has been jailed for eight years. Darren Collin's arrest led to the seizure of £1.3m worth of heroin and cocaine as well as £517,000 in cash. A Berlingo van he was driving in Glasgow was found to have a secret compartment used to smuggle drugs.. An encrypted mobile also contained incriminating messages to Collin, whose user name was "Big Poppa". Collin was sentenced at the High Court in Glasgow having earlier admitted to being concerned in the supply of heroin and cocaine. He was brought to justice as part of the UK-wide Operation Venetic during which experts managed to crack the encryption used by Encrochat - a global communication system used by criminals. 'Been caught' The court heard he was under police surveillance in April this year, and was seen driving an expensive Audi SQ7 before getting into the van. He later carried out what appeared to be drug transactions including collecting three large tubs in the Dawsholm Road Industrial Estate near the city's Anniesland. When he was stopped soon afterwards, mobile phones were found including a white V Smart device which was encrypted. Officers seized more than £500,000 in cash When decrypted, it emerged Collin had texted "Been caught" to an associate moments after he was stopped. The device revealed Collin was regularly in touch with 10 contacts who had nicknames including "icecream", "blackhorse", "magicstopper" and "tinthepark.com". Prosecutor Chris McKenna said: "There are further significant messages relating to what is assessed to be criminality such as images of white blocks. "These are potentially cocaine with different logos embossed as well as large sums of money and tick lists." Drugs were hidden in a secret compartment in Collin's van The court heard there were also "detailed instructions" given to Collin by a contact on how to package cash and where to drop it off. A flat in Anniesland linked to Collin was then raided where police found large consignments of heroin, cocaine, cash and substances used to bulk out drugs. Other related equipment, including a hydraulic press,  were seized. The heroin was valued at £820,500 with the cocaine at £505,580. The judge, Lord Armstrong, said Collin's level of involvement showed the drug operation was "organised and planned" and he would have received a 12-year sentence had it not been for his guilty plea. A press used in the drug dealing operation was among the items found His defence counsel said Collin had been hit with "financial difficulties" after a back injury affected his work as a lift engineer. Frances Connor QC said: "His father is a successful businessman, but he was too embarrassed to approach him for help. He does accept the foolishness of that." Collin was also given a three-year Serious Crime Prevention Order designed to tackle and monitor criminals on their release from jail. Welcoming the conviction, Det Ch Supt Philip Chapman said: "We are absolutely committed to disrupting those involved in serious and organised crime in Scotland. "We recognise the impact this criminal activity has on individuals and the misery that it brings to our communities."Petya ransomware encryption system cracked 11 April 2016 The Petya ransomware makes a computer unusable until a ransom is paid Petya ransomware victims can now unlock infected computers without paying. An unidentified programmer has produced a tool that exploits shortfalls in the way the malware encrypts a file that allows Windows to start up. In notes put on code-sharing site Github, he said he had produced the key generator to help his father-in-law unlock his Petya-encrypted computer. The malware, which started circulating in large numbers in March, demands a ransom of 0.9 bitcoins (£265). It hid itself in documents attached to emails purporting to come from people looking for work. Scrambling schemes Security researcher Lawrence Abrams, from the Bleeping Computer news site, said the key generator could unlock a Petya-encrypted computer in seven seconds . But the key generator requires victims to extract some information from specific memory locations on the infected drive. And Mr Abrams said: "Unfortunately, for many victims extracting this data is not an easy task." This would probably involve removing the drive and then connecting it up to another virus-free computer running Windows, he said. Another tool can then extract the data, which can be used on the website set up to help people unlock their computer. Independent security analyst Graham Cluley said there had been other occasions when ransomware makers had "bungled" their encryption system. Cryptolocker, Linux.encoder and one other ransomware variant were all rendered harmless when their scrambling schemes were reverse-engineered. "Of course," said Mr Cluley, "the best thing is to have safety secured backups rather than relying upon ransomware criminals goofing up."Update: Encryption row intensifies Dave Lee 18 November 2015 Comments So, there have been a few important developments since I published my story looking at the encryption debate surrounding how terror groups can communicate. First - messaging app Telegram says it has blocked 78 accounts that were being used by the so-called Islamic State group to communicate propaganda. It was "shocked" to learn the service was being used in this way. Worth stressing, again, that the BBC reported this fact weeks ago . My colleagues at BBC Monitoring told me that since the account closures, several new pro-IS channels have been set up on Telegram, rapidly amassing followers. However, I've just checked one of these new channels and it has been disabled, suggesting Telegram is, like many other apps, engaged in a cat-and-mouse game with extremists. Second - the call for encryption backdoors has, as predicted, intensified. The Manhattan district attorney has published a report demanding that a method to access passcode-locked phones be built in to iOS and Android, the two major players in mobile software. The document reads: "Apple and Google are not responsible for keeping the public safe. That is the job of law enforcement. "But the consequences of these companies' actions on the public safety are severe." My colleague Chris Baraniuk has been covering the report today. Read his story here . And finally, in Paris, there's doubt that the attackers were using encrypted messaging apps at all - according to The Intercept, citing French newspaper Le Monde , communications about the atrocity were sent using bog-standard SMS text messages. Follow Dave Lee on Twitter @DaveLeeBBCEuro MPs back end-to-end encryption for all citizens 19 June 2017 The European Parliament could enforce end-to-end encryption as an extension of personal privacy A European Parliament committee is proposing that end-to-end encryption be enforced on all forms of digital communications to protect citizens. The draft legislation seeks to protect sensitive personal data from hacking and government surveillance. EU citizens are entitled to personal privacy and this extends to online communications, the proposal argues. A ban on "backdoors" into encrypted messaging apps like WhatsApp and Telegram is also being considered. Encryption involves digitally scrambling a communication to protect its contents, and then using a digital key to reassemble the data. End-to-end encryption means the company providing the service does not have access to the key, meaning it cannot "listen in" to what is being shared - giving the sender and recipient added confidence in the privacy of their conversation. "The principle of confidentiality should apply to current and future means of communication, including calls, internet access, instant messaging applications, email, internet phone calls and personal messaging provided through social media," said a draft proposal drawn up for the European Parliament's Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice, and Home Affairs. The proposal seeks to amend Article Seven of the EU's Charter of Fundamental Rights to add online privacy. It will require approval by committee's members, the wider European Parliament and the Council of Ministers before it can be passed into law. 'Existing techniques' During the UK's recent election campaign, the Conservative Party said that tech firms should provide the authorities "access to information as required" to help combat online radicalisation, but ministers have also said they do not want to weaken encryption. That has led to some confusion among tech industry leaders as to whether the government wants some kind of "backdoor", a way to have end-to-end encryption disabled in specific cases, or some other action. However, cyber-security experts warn that criminals can still find a way to protect their communications, even if end-to-end encryption is banned. What is encryption? "There are lots of existing techniques law enforcement can use," Dr Steven Murdoch, a cyber-security researcher in the department of computer science at University College London told the BBC. "One of them is traffic analysis, which is looking at patterns of communications, eg who is talking to who, when and from what location. "The other one is hacking - equipment interference in British law - which can happen before data is encrypted and after it's been decrypted, so there are still ways for law enforcement to gain access to information." In the Manchester, Westminster and London Bridge terror attacks, the perpetrators were already known to UK security services, Dr Murdoch added. "They were not stopped because there were either insufficient resources or the resources were not sufficiently prioritised," he said. "The suggestions being considered by the UK government would be worse for computer security. So much of people's lives are now carried out online. We should have privacy online just as we have offline."Technology explained: What is encryption? Encryption is a way of scrambling computer data so it can only be read by the people you want. It is an essential part of online shopping and banking, and can make emails and instant messages illegible if they are intercepted. Encryption has been in the news recently. Some governments want service providers to build backdoors into their encryption systems that would let law enforcement access suspects' data. The BBC's Chris Foxx explains how one type of encryption - public key encryption - can be useful in secure communications. 22 January 2016 BBC News TechnologyPhone encryption: Police 'mug' suspect to get data By Dominic Casciani and  Gaetan Portal 2 December 2016 Unlocked: But data unretrievable if not Detectives have developed a new tactic to beat criminals using mobile phone encryption - legally "mug" them. The tactic has emerged after Scotland Yard's cybercrime unit smashed a fake credit card fraud racket. Officers realised crucial evidence in the investigation was concealed on a suspect's iPhone - but it would be unobtainable if the device was locked. So a covert team seized it in the street while the suspect was on a call - beating the security settings. The street seizure of the phone was dreamt up by detectives from Operation Falcon , the specialist Metropolitan Police team running investigations into major fraud and related crimes organised online. Gabriel Yew: Phone seized in the street Gabriel Yew had been under investigation for the suspected manufacture of fake cards that gangs were using across Europe to buy luxury goods. Detectives suspected that he was using an iPhone exclusively to communicate to other members of the network but knew if they arrested him, he could refuse to unlock it and they would never see incriminating evidence. They considered whether they could legally force a suspect's finger or thumb on to the device's fingerprint reader to unlock it, but found they had no such power. However, they concluded they could stage their own lawful "street robbery" - using a similar snatch technique to a thief - and in June a team set out to do precisely that. Undercover surveillance officers trailed Yew and waited for him to unlock his phone to make a call - thereby disabling the encryption. One officer then rushed in to seize the phone from Yew's hand - just as would happen in a criminal mugging. As his colleagues restrained the suspect, the officer continually "swiped" through the phone's screens to prevent it from locking before they had downloaded its data. "The challenges of pin code access and encryption on some phones make it harder to access evidence in a timely fashion than ever before," said Det Ch Insp Andrew Gould who led the operation. "Officers had to seize Yew's phone from him in the street. This evidence was crucial to the prosecution." Bogus cards: Major racket smashed thanks to iPhone "mugging" The phone revealed a motherlode of information on Yew's efficient business-like practices. He had orders for fake cards and there was evidence linking him to four men who were subsequently convicted and a further 100 potential suspects. Detectives also uncovered Yew's "factory" with thousands of blank credit cards ready to be programmed. Yew pleaded guilty to fraud and weapons offences and at a sentencing hearing this week at Blackfriars Crown Court was jailed for five and a half years.Whatsapp adds end-to-end encryption 5 April 2016 Instant messaging service Whatsapp has announced it will encrypt all its users' communications from Tuesday. With end-to-end encryption, messages are scrambled as they leave the sender's device and can only be decrypted by the recipient's device. It renders messages unreadable if they are intercepted, for example by criminals or law enforcement. Whatsapp, which has a billion users worldwide, said file transfers and voice calls would be encrypted too. The Facebook-owned company said protecting private communication was one of its "core beliefs". What is encryption? Encryption was thrown under the spotlight after the FBI asked Apple to help it access data on an iPhone used by California gunman Syed Farook. Whatsapp said: "The idea is simple: when you send a message, the only person who can read it is the person or group chat that you send that message to. No one can see inside that message. Not cybercriminals. Not hackers. Not oppressive regimes. Not even us." Users with the latest version of the app were notified about the change when sending messages on Tuesday. The setting is enabled by default. Amnesty International called the move a "huge victory" for free speech. "Whatsapp's roll out of the Signal Protocol, providing end to end encryption for its one billion users worldwide, is a major boost for people's ability to express themselves and communicate without fear," the organisation said in a statement. "This is a huge victory for privacy and free speech, especially for activists and journalists who depend on strong and trustworthy communications to carry out their work without putting their lives at greater risk." Whatsapp's decision was also welcomed by security professionals. "Wire-tappers lament, law-abiding citizens rejoice, for WhatsApp's latest update is a victory for communications privacy," said Lee Munson, a security researcher for Comparitech. "With the ability to access data removed even from the company behind the app, only ill-informed law enforcement agencies are likely to mutter 'terrorists' as the masses enjoy the encrypted text messages, photos, video and phone calls they've been demanding ever since Edward Snowden blew the lid on government surveillance." The move is likely to irk law enforcement agencies, particularly the US Department of Justice which has recently expressed concern over "unreachable" information contained in devices. The DoJ did not respond to the BBC's request for comment on Tuesday. Indeed, FBI attorney James Baker has reportedly criticised the move saying encryption threatens the work of law enforcement. "It has public safety costs. Folks have to understand that, and figure out how they are going to deal with that," he said, according to the US News and World Report news site . "Do they want the public to bear those costs? Do they want the victims of terrorism to bear those costs?" Mr Baker was speaking at the International Association of Privacy Professionals summit. Other messaging apps with end-to-end encryption include Telegram, which is known to be used by the so-called Islamic State to share information.Global tech giants back encryption 24 November 2015 Smartphone encryption can delay investigations warned Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr Weakening encryption in the wake of the Paris terror attacks "does not make sense", say some of the world's biggest technology firms. A statement about encryption was released by the Information Technology Industry Council (ITIC) - a  policy body that represents tech giants. Google, Microsoft, Facebook, Samsung and many other computer industry firms are all ITIC members. It said encryption helped preserve safety and security every day. The ITIC is a global lobby and policy group that communicates the views of tech firms to politicians and legislative bodies. The statement comes after many politicians criticised the data-scrambling systems that tech firms are increasingly applying to hardware and services. They have called for encryption to be weakened in order to help police and intelligence services catch criminals or thwart potential terror attacks. Others want backdoors included in encryption software that would give law enforcement access to data that is otherwise locked away. But, said the ITIC, weakening encryption in a bid to help the "good guys" was a mistake. Doing so "would actually create vulnerabilities to be exploited by the bad guys", it warned. Such a move "would almost certainly cause serious physical and financial harm across our society and our economy". "Weakening security with the aim of advancing security simply does not make sense," said the ITIC.India withdraws controversial encryption policy 22 September 2015 India has more than 900 million mobile connections The Indian government has withdrawn a draft encryption policy after public uproar over the proposed measures. IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said the proposals were released to the public without his knowledge. The new law would have forced Indians to store plain-text versions of their encrypted data for 90 days and make it available to security agencies. The draft policy sparked outrage on social media, as most messaging services use some form of encryption. The encryption policy was proposed to enhance information security in India. On Monday night the government exempted social media applications from the draft policy after social media outrage. The "draft encryption policy is not the final view of the government. It will be redrawn to specify who it will apply to," Mr Prasad told reporters on Tuesday. He said the purpose of the policy was "not related to social media messaging platforms used by the common man." The draft said Indians have until 16 October to weigh in on the proposed measures, and the government had said that the final policy would only be drafted after all feedback is taken into account. Plain text files like a Word document or email are not encrypted and can be read by anyone.Pentagon invites hackers in and backs encryption 2 March 2016 The US defence secretary invited hackers to help find security holes The Pentagon has invited external experts to hack into its systems in the first such test of its cybersecurity measures. The method is often used by private companies that want to use the expertise of "friendly" hackers to find holes in their systems. It came after the US defence secretary backed strong encryption amid the FBI's phone unlocking row with Apple. Ash Carter called on tech firms and the US government to work together. The US Department of Defense launched its Hack the Pentagon project on Wednesday, inviting vetted outside hackers to test the security of some of its public websites. According to the Reuters news agency, the programme will be modelled on the hacking bounties often run by firms, in which experts are offered incentives to identify and report security issues. The Pentagon said it was also considering offering financial rewards. 'Digital defences' "I am confident that this innovative initiative will strengthen our digital defences and ultimately enhance our national security," Mr Carter said. The Pentagon has long tested its own networks using internal so-called "red teams" but this initiative - the first such scheme to be run by the US federal government - would open at least some of its vast network of computer systems to cyberchallenges from across industry and academia. However, the Pentagon said that other more sensitive networks or key weapons programs would not be included in the scheme, at least initially. "The goal is not to comprise any aspect of our critical systems, but to still challenge our cybersecurity in a new and innovative way," one senior defence official told Reuters. The official said they expected thousands of qualified participants to sign up ahead of the pilot scheme's opening in April. FBI director James Comey appeared before Congress amid his bureau's encryption battle with Apple During a visit to Silicon Valley on Tuesday, Mr Carter underscored the US military's support for data security and strong encryption. Speaking on the day that both Apple and the FBI appeared before the US congress over the former's refusal to help the latter overcome an iPhone's encryption protection, he said that the Pentagon viewed strong encryption as critical. Reuters reported that Mr Carter declined to address a live case directly and said that no one case should drive policy decisions. But he did call for greater co-operation between Silicon Valley and Washington on data security. He said that a failure to work together would allow China, Russia and others who he said did not favour a free internet to set new global standards, according to the news agency. "We shouldn't let the solutions to this larger issue of how to handle data security as a society be driven by any one particular case," Mr Carter told reporters after a speech to the Commonwealth Club of San Francisco. "It would be unreasonable." In his speech, Mr Carter said: "It is easy to see wrong ways to do this. One would be a law hastily written in anger or grief. Another would be to have the rules be written by Russia or China." Encryption has become a battleground between tech firms and governments On the same day, it was announced that the Turing Award had been given to a pair of cryptographers whose ideas helped make the internet possible. According to the Associated Press, the recipients - Whitfield Diffie, a former chief security officer of Sun Microsystems, and Martin Hellman, a professor emeritus of electrical engineering at Stanford University - said that giving governments control over encrypted communications would put everyone at risk. The pair were chosen for the $1m (£700,000) award for contributions to computing for the ideas of public-key cryptography and digital signatures, which they introduced in 1976. The concepts now secure all kinds of data, from online communications and financial transactions to internet-connected infrastructure like power plants, the AP agency reported.How did governments lose control of encryption? 2 March 2016 The clash between Apple and the FBI over whether the company should provide access to encrypted data on a locked iPhone used by one of the San Bernardino attackers highlights debates about privacy and data security which have raged for decades. Cryptography was once controlled by the state and deployed only for military and diplomatic ends. But in the 1970s, cryptographer Whitfield Diffie devised a system which took encryption keys away from the state and marked the start of the so-called "Crypto Wars". Whitfield Diffie and three other experts spoke to the BBC World Service Inquiry programme about the tensions at the heart of the spat between Apple and the FBI. Whitfield Diffie: The revolution begins In 1975, cryptographer Whitfield Diffie devised "public key cryptography", which revolutionised encryption. "The basic techniques we used until public key cryptography come from around 1500 in the western world, and were known from about 800 in the Middle East. "They are basically arithmetic. Not ordinary integer arithmetic, but something like clock arithmetic - it's 11 o'clock and you wait three hours and you get 2 o'clock - and table lookups. What's the 5th element in the table? What's the 20th element? "The trouble is you can't do them very well without some kind of mechanical computation. A human being can't do enough of those calculations to produce a secure system without making too many mistakes. Whitfield Diffie's discovery marked a paradigmatic shift in cryptography "Before what we did, you could not have supported cryptography outside a fairly integrated organisation. If you look at the US Department of Defense, it's very large, but very centralised; everybody knows the chain of command. "They can have a trusted entity run by the National Security Agency (NSA) to manage the keys [used by the military and government]. If you were in the military, and it was part of your assignment to talk to somebody securely in another part of the military, they would supply you with a key, and every morning you come out and put one in your teletype machine or phone or whatever. "But the internet is not just meant for friends to talk to friends, it's for everybody to talk to everybody. Until you have public key cryptography you have no way of arranging the keys on demand at a moment's notice for these secure communications. "That's what browsers do with websites all the time. Amazon, eBay, all of the merchants on the internet encrypt at least some of the traffic you have with them, at the very least the payment portion of it. "[At the time] the NSA reacted like any other enterprise that has had a monopoly in a market for a long period of time. Suddenly somebody was treading on its turf, and it made several attempts to recapture its market." Susan Landau: Crypto Wars Susan Landau is professor of Cyber Security Policy at Worcester Polytechnic Institute. "Public-key cryptography was mathematically elegant and also quite elementary. That's what made it so powerful and so wonderful. "The NSA said 'Wait a minute: this work should be classified.' They had been accustomed to being the only place that cryptography was done. They didn't want a competitor developing algorithms that maybe they would have trouble breaking into. They wanted to hold the keys to the kingdom. The NSA tried unsuccessfully to restrict access to Whitfield Diffie's discovery "There was a big fight between the academic and industry research community and the NSA. But it was settled fairly amicably, fairly quickly. The next problem was who would control the development of cryptography standards for the US government. "The NSA does this for military and diplomatic communications, but there's a vast need for cryptography for civilian agencies such as health and human services, education, agriculture. The National Bureau of Standards had been doing this in the 1970s but in the 1980s the NSA began pushing in this direction. "Congress, who had always looked more favourably on the civilian side, put the National Institute of Standards and Technology in charge. "But the law also included this little thing about three people from NSA approving certain things. They exercised tremendous control, and kept blocking standards that were more friendly to the commercial sector. That battle went on between 1987 until the mid 1990s. It was quite ugly. "Another battle was over the clipper chip. Clipper was a very hard algorithm with a secure key, but the key was split and was to be shared with agencies of the federal government. The idea was [that] a business person travelling overseas would be able to use a clipper-enabled phone and talk securely with the office back at home. "But if you're doing something illegal the US government will be able to decrypt easily, because the keys are held by its agencies. "It was a complete flop. Outside the US, no one wanted it. Inside the US, no one bought it. It was a total failure. "The controls on cryptography in the 1990s were very odd because they were controls on an export. If you wanted to export a computer or communications device with cryptography, you needed an export licence from the US government. "Much of the time you would get 'We're looking at it, we'll get back to you.' Of course, when you're selling high tech, you don't need a delay of two months, [so] you decide not to have strong encryption within the device - you put in something very weak that the US government will allow to go without a licence. The effect was to not have strong encryption domestically as well as abroad. "In 2000, the US government loosened the controls on export of devices with strong encryption; it looked as if the private sector won the battle." Alan Woodward: Going dark Alan Woodward is an expert in signals intelligence, intelligence gathered from communications, who has worked for the UK government in various roles. "Suppose you got intelligence that people appeared to be mobilising their military forces. You'd need to know whether that was a prelude to war, or just an exercise. One of the ways to do that was by analysing the signals and communications traffic going around on the other side. "In the early 2000s, it got harder. Previously they'd had the ability to decrypt things that were weakly encrypted. You could throw a super computer at the problem and try all the possible keys until you unlock the message. "You just physically couldn't do that for the number of encrypted messages that were starting to pile up. But also, the forms of encryption were becoming stronger. The encryption that was being used by governments themselves back in the 1970s was called the Data Encryption Standard. With a modern PC, you can break that in a matter of seconds. That kind of evolution in encryption and decryption has been going on ever since. People use the Tor network to browse the internet and communicate in private "It got worse because there were various other forms of technology that were based on encryption, where you were able to remain anonymous, completely hidden. There's a thing called the Tor network which causes security agencies a great deal of trouble, because you don't even know where that person is based, never mind who they're communicating with. "Governments recognised that there wasn't a lot you could do about this technically or from a policy perspective. It's out there. So what you have to do is  be able to get at it before it is encrypted or after it's decrypted. "They recognised that they needed to work more closely with the technology providers because they were the ones that owned the infrastructure that was being used.  They were the ones running it; it was no longer governments and state telecommunications companies. "They had very good relationships. Microsoft produced a suite of software called Cofee (Computer Online Forensic Evidence Extractor), which is only given to government and Law Enforcement Agencies. It's a forensic tool that allows you to analyse Windows systems. "You used to be able to go along to Apple and they could unlock the phone. With messaging services it was possible for governments with the right authorisation to go along and sit in the middle of the conversation and look at the messages in a non-encrypted form. "All of that changed when Edward Snowden got his leaks out." Jeff Larson: The Snowden Effect Jeff Larson is a reporter at New York investigative newsroom ProPublica. It worked with the Guardian newspaper on the sensitive material leaked by Edward Snowden from the US National Security Agency in 2013. "I had seen something in the Snowden tranche of documents that made me suspicious that the NSA and GCHQ had been working behind the scenes to crack encryption that powers internet technologies. "When you log into your bank or Twitter or Facebook, your web browser talks to those servers over what's known as TLS, which is an encryption layer that protects the confidentiality of that traffic. "The intelligence agencies - not only NSA and GCHQ, but Canada and Australia and New Zealand- had spent 10 years and untold billions of dollars trying to break these fundamental encryption technologies. "They honed things, like their power with super computers, but they were also able to mount a programme of inserting back doors into cryptographic software, and - perhaps a bit more troubling - the NSA launched a covert campaign to influence the very standards that programmers rely on to create encryption. "So standards bodies write up 'here's how encryption works, here's how you implement it in your software', and the NSA was actually working against that effort. Edward Snowden's revelations angered many in the technology sector "Ever since [the Snowden revelations were published in] 2013, there's been quite a movement to further encrypt the internet. "I think there's been an awakening on the part of private companies that it is important to their users to keep [their data] confidential and secret. "Apple saw these revelations about the overreach of intelligence services and law enforcement services, and created a phone that was harder to crack because they wanted to increase the security of their users. I do believe that. "The Apple case is very hard. I see the arguments on both sides. I see the fact that the FBI wants access to this information, and I also see Apple's need to protect its customers' privacy. "I hope that we come to a conclusion that is more open and transparent. What I would say is I like that this fight is happening in public so that we can have debates like this." The Inquiry is broadcast on the BBC World Service on Tuesdays from 12:05 GMT. Listen online or download the podcast .Dutch government says no to 'encryption backdoors' 7 January 2016 Dutch justice minister Ard van der Steur has no plans for "restrictive regulatory measures" on encryption The Netherlands has said it will not force tech firms to share encrypted communications such as emails with its security agencies. The move puts the country in stark contrast with US and UK officials, who have argued agencies need such access to fight terrorism. The Netherlands began reviewing its policies after the recent Paris terrorist attacks. But this week it said "restrictive" measures would put citizens at risk. Encryption is a way of protecting communications or data so that it is incomprehensible without the correct passcode or key. Advocates say it protects users by preventing criminals and spies from prying into private conversations. But security agencies have said they struggled to bypass encrypted messaging platforms used by groups such as so-called Islamic State to plan attacks. "We are not some kind of maniacs who are ideologues against encryption," FBI director James Comey said in November: "But we have a problem that encryption is crashing into public safety and we have to figure out, as people who care about both, how to resolve it." Going Dutch In a letter published this week , the Dutch Ministry of Security and Justice concluded there were arguments for and against "strong encryption". However, it said allowing law enforcers to access protected data would make digital systems vulnerable to "criminals, terrorists and foreign intelligence services". "This would have undesirable consequences for the security of information stored and communicated and the integrity of ICT systems, which are increasingly of importance for the functioning of the society," it added. President Obama has argued tech firms should share encrypted data with security agencies Despite objections from the FBI, the White House has dropped plans to force tech firms to share encrypted data. But the UK government hopes to secure such powers through its Draft Investigatory Powers Bill - referred to by some as the Snooper's Charter. The bill also includes a stipulation that internet and phone companies keep records of every website, app and service to which a computer connects. 'Weaken security' The proposals have met with fierce resistance from privacy advocates and tech firms . Some fear it will legitimise the mass surveillance programmes of the US and UK security agencies uncovered by whistleblower Edward Snowden in 2013. In December, Apple told a parliamentary select committee scrutinising the bill that "in this rapidly evolving cyber-threat environment, companies should remain free to implement strong encryption to protect customers". And this week, William Binney, ex-technical director of the US National Security Agency, said the bill would be "totalitarian" and "cost lives". "It is 99% useless," he said in a letter sent to MPs. "Who wants to know everyone who has ever looked at Google or the BBC? We have known for decades that that swamps [security agency] analysts."Taking on the encryption dilemma Prime Minister David Cameron believes it is unacceptable that some private communications cannot be accessed by governments thanks to encryption technology. Phil Zimmerman, referred to by many as the "father of encryption" takes a very different view. Newsnight's David Grossman travelled to Mobile World Congress in Barcelona to hear about the growing dilemma surrounding privacy and security. 6 March 2015 BBC News TechnologyAmazon makes U-turn over Fire tablet encryption By Leo Kelion 7 March 2016 Owners of Amazon's older tablets noticed disk encyrption had been removed as an option Amazon has pledged to restore disk encryption security protection to its mobile operating system. The firm had faced criticism after it emerged that the feature had been dropped in a recent update to Fire OS. Amazon had justified the move by saying that "customers weren't using" the privacy facility. It now intends to reintroduce it before the end of May. Disk encryption has become a topical issue as it lies at the heart of a clash between Apple and the FBI. The facility digitally scrambles data on a device, making it impossible to make sense of it unless a passcode or other ID check is provided. The dispute involving Apple concerns the tech firm's refusal to alter its own mobile operating system to prevent an iPhone's data being wiped if too many incorrect passcode guesses are typed in. Amazon has publicly backed Apple's stance via a legal filing known as an amicus brief , which was submitted to a US court last week. What is encryption? Angry owners Amazon removed disk encryption when it released Fire OS 5 last year. It included the operating system with its Fire tablets, as well as its TV-streaming devices. However, a backlash only occurred after Amazon started making the update available to owners of its older Fire tablets, who noticed the security facility was no longer available. "I will no longer be able to keep my business email... as our institution requires that encryption be used," wrote one tablet owner on the firm's forums . "I cannot believe Amazon just 'deleted' this critical feature." Another posted: "In an era where devices store information on everything from browsing habits to bank information it's nearly unthinkable for a company to deliberately remove the one feature that can protect a customer from identity theft if their device is lost or stolen." The firm reversed its stance over the weekend. "We will return the option for full disk encryption with a Fire OS update coming this spring," a spokesman told the BBC. The flip-flop has not affected the firm's continued use of encryption to protect data sent between its devices and its data centres. Encrypted by default Fire OS is a variant of Android. Google offers full device encryption in its version of the operating system, and in October told device manufacturers that it should be switched on by default in new handsets powerful enough to support it. Google made disk encryption the default option in Android Marshmallow One expert suggested Amazon should take a similar step. "There's growing recognition that better security is needed in the whole sphere of computing and particularly mobile devices," commented Dr Steven Murdoch from University College London. "So, I was surprised when Amazon removed the feature. "It's certainly possible that many people didn't enable it - perhaps they found it inconvenient to do so. But rather than remove it, a better solution would be to make it more easy to use."FBI arrest man over alleged Amazon centre bomb plot 12 April US authorities have arrested a man who allegedly plotted to bomb an Amazon data centre, which he believed would "kill off about 70% of the internet". Seth Aaron Pendley, 28, was arrested after receiving a dud explosive device from an undercover FBI agent, and was charged with a malicious attempt to destroy a building with an explosive, He came to the FBI's attention after somebody reported his online posts. If convicted, Mr Pendley could face up to 20 years in prison. According to investigators, Mr Pendley's main goal was to damage Amazon's web server network. He believed that there were 24 buildings that "run 70% of the internet",  including services used by the CIA and FBI, according to a conversation detailed in the criminal complaint against him. Damaging them would frustrate the "oligarchy" - or small group of elites - in power in the United States, he believed. Amazon Web Services (AWS) does play a hugely important role in the modern internet, hosting and processing the information behind many popular online services and websites. Outages caused by a problem at one centre tend to knock services offline for several hours at most, and often for a limited number of people or for specific sites. For example, in 2017, a major fault at one US AWS centre knocked sites such as Quora and Trello offline for several hours. And even the total loss by fire of a data centre belonging to European company OVH earlier this year - which disrupted an estimated 3.6 million websites including government portals across Europe - went unnoticed by many internet users. An Amazon spokesperson said: "We would like to thank the FBI for their work in this investigation. We take the safety and security of our staff and customer data incredibly seriously, and constantly review various vectors for any potential threats. We will continue to retain this vigilance about our employees and customers." From Capitol Riot to C-4 Mr Pendley attended the Capitol Riots of 6 January, investigators found, having driven from Texas to Washington DC. Investigators said he told friends he had brought an assault rifle with him, but left it in his car - and also that although he reached the windows of the Capitol building, he did not enter it. Two days after that event, a "concerned citizen" reported Mr Pendley's posts on a militia website - where he went by the name of Dionysus, the Greek god of wine - to the FBI. "We are indebted to the concerned citizen who came forward to report the defendant's alarming online rhetoric. In flagging his posts to the FBI, this individual may have saved the lives of a number of tech workers," acting US attorney Prerak Shah said in a statement . We are indebted to the concerned citizen who came forward to report this defendant’s alarming online rhetoric. In flagging his posts to the @FBI , this individual may have saved the lives of a number of tech workers. https://t.co/npSmuukWYN — U.S. Attorney Shah (@USAttyShah) April 9, 2021 View original tweet on Twitter The posts from "Dionysus" that sparked concern spoke of his desire to "conduct a little experiment," which he said would be "dangerous" and "draw a lot of heat". Asked by another user what the result would be, he responded, "death", according to the court documents. The FBI managed to uncover Dionysus's email address, and link that to his Facebook account and real-world identity. In late January, Mr Pendley began using the encrypted messaging app Signal to detail his plans to bomb an AWS facility - but the recipient of those messages was a confidential FBI informant, investigators said. Over the course of February, Mr Pendley shared his plans, including the type of explosive he sought, potential targets, and maps. On 31 March, the confidant introduced Pendley to a supposed explosives supplier - who was actually an undercover member of the FBI. His plan at this point, according to a recorded conversation, was to attack three Amazon buildings clustered close together. On 8 April, at the handover of the supposed explosives, the undercover FBI employee showed Mr Pendley boxes he claimed were C-4 weapons-grade explosives, and showed him how to arm and detonate them. After Mr Pendley took the devices and placed them in his car, he was arrested by the FBI. Mr Pendley made an initial court appearance on Friday, and remains in custody.Can the government ban encryption? By Jane Wakefield 13 January 2015 Britain's prime minister wants new laws in the wake of the Paris attacks Whenever the terrorist threat is increased, as it has been since the tragic events in Paris last week, so too are the calls from politicians to increase the powers of the people they employ to protect the public from such threats. Those agencies can only do their job, the argument goes, if they have full access to the online chatter of those planning terrorist atrocities. As the UK's Prime Minister David Cameron put it in a speech this week - there should be no "means of communication" which "we cannot read". But in an era when communication takes many forms, and with the added problem that much of this communication is encrypted, how easy is it to turn this sound bite into reality? Legislation There are myriad ways to communicate online and many of them are encrypted For Mr Cameron the answer lies in a new "comprehensive piece of legislation" that will close the "safe spaces" used by suspected terrorists. So what are those safe spaces? Although Mr Cameron doesn't name any, it is likely he is referring to new apps such as WhatsApp and Snapchat which allow people to chat with relative anonymity by keeping their services encrypted. But the battle is much more wide-ranging as established names such as Google and Apple promise to do more to ensure that encryption is used as default on their services. After the revelations from whistle-blower Edward Snowden about mass surveillance programs, firms are determined to be seen to be putting the control of their data back in the hands of consumers. In the past, governments with the appropriate warrants could go to firms such as Apple and ask them to unlock the communications on phones. The iPhone 6 is encrypted by default and Apple cannot open it for anyone No more. Apple has changed its infrastructure to make it impossible for it to hand over any data from the iPhone 6's iMessage service, for example. Such military-grade lock-down of devices inevitably terrifies governments so it should come as no surprise that they are fighting back with new legislation. Although, it should be noted, that the new legislation Mr Cameron referred to in his speech is probably just a resurrection of an old law. The Draft Communication Bill of 2012, dubbed the "snoopers' charter" by critics, aimed to extend the range of data that communication companies had to store for 12 months. It would have included, for the first time, details of messages sent on social media, webmail, voice calls over the internet and gaming. Officials would not have been able to see the content without a warrant but the bill was blocked by the Liberal Democrats. Politics continues to dog attempts to revive it with Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg saying after Mr Cameron's latest speech that his party will continue to oppose any such legislation. Crypto-wars Should governments have a master key to unlock communications? At the heart of the debate is the question about how the government deals with the fact that communication data is increasingly being encrypted. As Prof Alan Woodward, a security expert from the University of Surrey, puts it: "You can have all the legislation in the world but you still might not be able to read what you've got." Encryption has long terrified governments. The so-called crypto-wars began in the 1970s when the US government attempted to classify encryption as munition. The Clinton administration in the 1990s tried to get industry to adopt the so-called Clipper chip - an encryption chip for which the government had a backdoor. The US government also tried to introduce something called key escrow - a policy that all encryption systems should leave a a spare key with a trusted third party. When software developer Phil Zimmermann developed PGP, a free mass-market encryption product for emails and files, the US government attempted to prosecute him because someone had exported his software from the US without government permission. Cybercriminals Backdoors could be exploited by criminals And, however outrageous this may sound now, those two options remain the only ones for the government as, two decades later, they grapple with exactly the same issues. So does the idea of a golden key, a backdoor for the security service, make any more sense now than it did in the 1990s? Certainly the threat from terrorism is greater and few would argue with the sentiment that, if you are in danger and a police officer turns up at your backdoor - you are going to let them in. But the analogy implies that someone has control over who uses the backdoor and, of course, in the software sense this is impossible. A backdoor in software is not just something for the security service. Anyone - including the criminals - may discover it and exploit it. "A UK cryptographic backdoor would become the number one global target for cybercriminals. The UK government would not be able to keep it secure for long, particularly if it needed to give access to police and security services," said Matthew Bloch, managing director of internet hosting firm Bytemark. All of this has been debated before, of course.  Ahead of the controversial Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act, which came into force in 2000, both options of a backdoor and the idea of a key stored by a third party were considered and rejected by lawmakers. They opted instead for a third way - that someone in possession of an encryption key should be forced to hand it over to the authorities. That too is fraught with complexities. Often the person simply doesn't know the key. "It comes down to passwords on laptops and you can't force someone to hand these over," said Prof Woodward. And encryption technology is evolving. "Now there is a way of protecting secret information into the future so if a key is compromised the key agreed for a particular session changes," he explained. "There are even technologies emerging that can give a false key which makes the system aware that the key was given under duress and wipes the data." Mathematics not technology The technology industry tends to have a knee-jerk reaction to attempts from government to interfere in its processes. Don't mess in things that you don't understand, they warn. The technology genie is out of the bottle and cannot be put back. In this particular case, some have interpreted Mr Cameron's words as meaning that the government is seeking to ban, in effect, a technology that underpins the global economy. SSL (Secure Sockets Layer) and TLS (Transport Layer Security) encryption protects financial details when people shop or bank online while so-called end-to-end encryption such as PGP (Pretty Good Privacy) help keep personal messages private. "Encryption is mathematics, not technology. It can't be suppressed by law," Mr Bloch told the BBC. Whatever route the government elected in the UK in May decides to go, Prof Woodward hopes that it will listen carefully to the technology industry. "The government will need to take a lot of wide-ranging advice as this has the potential to go spectacularly wrong." It is also worth noting, he added, that the men involved in the Paris shootings were known to the authorities and had been under surveillance until it was deemed that the threat from them had lessened. "The security forces need better resources not more powers."India exempts social media from encryption policy 22 September 2015 The Indian government has exempted social media applications from a new encryption policy after public uproar over the proposed measures. The new law would have forced Indians to store plain-text versions of their encrypted data for 90 days and make it available to security agencies. The policy sparked outrage on social media, as most messaging services like WhatsApp use some form of encryption. Online banking and purchases will also be exempt from the law. Indians have until 16 October to weigh in on the proposed measures, and the government has said that the final policy will only be drafted after the feedback is taken into account. The encryption policy was proposed to enhance information security in India. But experts argue that if enforced in its current form, the policy could make personal information vulnerable to hacking. Plain text files like a Word document or email are not encrypted and can be read by anyone.Europol chief warns on computer encryption 29 March 2015 Encrypted communications are the biggest problem for police, says European police chief A European police chief says the sophisticated online communications are the biggest problem for security agencies tackling terrorism. Hidden areas of the internet and encrypted communications make it harder to monitor terror suspects, warns Europol's Rob Wainwright. Tech firms should consider the impact sophisticated encryption software has on law enforcement, he said. Mr Wainwright was talking to 5 Live Investigates. A spokesman for TechUK, the UK's technology trade association, said: "With the right resources and cooperation between the security agencies and technology companies, alongside a clear legal framework for that cooperation, we can ensure both national security and economic security are upheld." Mr Wainwright said that in most current investigations the use of encrypted communications was found to be central to the way terrorists operated. "It's become perhaps the biggest problem for the police and the security service authorities in dealing with the threats from terrorism," he explained. "It's changed the very nature of counter-terrorist work from one that has been traditionally reliant on having good monitoring capability of communications to one that essentially doesn't provide that any more." Mr Wainwright, whose organisation supports police forces in Europe, said terrorists were exploiting the "dark net", where users can go online anonymously, away from the gaze of police and security services. Secret messaging But he is also concerned at moves by companies such as Apple to allow customers to encrypt data on their smartphones. And the development of heavily encrypted instant messaging apps is another cause for concern, he said. Edward Snowden revealed that the UK's GCHQ was also involved in widespread surveillance of communications This meant people could send text and voice messages which police found very difficult or impossible to access, he said. "We are disappointed by the position taken by these tech firms and it only adds to our problems in getting to the communications of the most dangerous people that are abusing the internet. "[Tech firms] are doing it, I suppose, because of a commercial imperative driven by what they perceive to be consumer demand for greater privacy of their communications." Surveillance Mr Wainwright acknowledged this was a result of the revelations by former National Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden, who exposed how security services were conducting widespread surveillance of emails and messages. He said security agencies now had to work to rebuild trust between technology firms and the authorities. The TechUK spokesman told the programme: "From huge volumes of financial transactions to personal details held on devices, the security of digital communications fundamentally underpins the UK economy. "Encryption is an essential component of the modern world and ensures the UK retains its position as one of the world's leading economies. "Tech companies take their security responsibilities incredibly seriously, and in the ongoing course of counter-terrorism and other investigations engage with law enforcement and security agencies." The programme also found evidence that supporters of the Islamic State (IS) are using encrypted sites to radicalise or groom new recruits. Europol director Rob Wainwright says IS is believed to have up to 50,000 different twitter accounts On one blogging website, a 17-year-old girl who wants to become a "jihadi bride" is told that if she needs to speak securely she should use an encrypted messaging app. The family of 15-year-old Yusra Hussein from Bristol, who went to Syria last year, also believe she was groomed in this way. Twitter terrorism The extent of the challenge faced by security services is shown in the scale of social media use by IS. Mr Wainwright revealed that IS is believed to have up to 50,000 different Twitter accounts tweeting up to 100,000 messages a day. Europol is now setting up a European Internet Referral Unit to identify and remove sites being used by terrorist organisations. Mr Wainwright also says current laws are "deficient" and should be reviewed to ensure security agencies are able to monitor all areas of the online world. "There is a significant capability gap that has to change if we're serious about ensuring the internet isn't abused and effectively enhancing the terrorist threat. "We have to make sure we reach the right balance by ensuring the fundamental principles of privacy are upheld so there's a lot of work for legislators and tech firms to do." BBC Radio 5 live Investigates is on BBC 5live on Sunday 29 March at 11am or download the programme podcast .GCHQ boss: Tech firms should co-operate over encryption By Gordon Corera 7 March 2016 Mr Hannigan's comments come amid a legal dispute between Apple and the FBI The head of GCHQ has called for greater co-operation between spies and tech companies in dealing with challenges posed by encryption. Robert Hannigan said the encoding of data was being misused by a small number of people. He said the rational response was not to think encryption was bad, but to look for pragmatic ways of responding. Mr Hannigan was speaking as the FBI engages in a legal battle with Apple over the firm's encryption systems. At an event at MIT in Boston, Mr Hannigan, director of the UK government's communications intelligence agency, said it should be up to politicians - not companies or spies - to set the parameters. On his first day in charge of GCHQ in November 2014, Mr Hannigan wrote an opinion piece for the Financial Times accusing US tech companies of becoming the "command and control network of choice" for terrorist groups. A year and a half later in Boston, Mr Hannigan conceded the comments caused a bigger stir than he expected and said they were wrongly seen as an attack on the tech industry. The tone of his latest intervention was conciliatory, focusing on the need for government agencies and companies to work together to find solutions. What is encryption? "We need a new relationship between the tech sector, academia, civil society and government agencies. We should be bridging the divide, sharing ideas and building a constructive dialogue in a less highly-charged atmosphere," he told the audience. Vulnerability Apple has designed phones with strong encryption which made it impossible for the company to retrieve data for the state, including in the case of one of those involved in the San Bernadino attacks . The company and its supporters have stressed that creating any form of "key" for the government to unlock data would also create a vulnerability for hackers and others to exploit. Mr Hannigan did not mention Apple directly but emphasised the way in which GCHQ supported strong encryption because of the agency's role in protecting British data from hackers and other states. He also pointed to the agency's pioneering work such as that of Alan Turing in World War Two who worked not just on breaking codes but also on securing speech through encryption. Apple's position on encryption is strongly supported by its customers and other tech firms Mr Hannigan said two previously secret papers from 1970 by James Ellis, a leading GCHQ cryptographer, were being declassified which showed the early work on developing what became the now widely used system of public key cryptography. That kind of innovation was what Mr Hannigan said he wanted to see today in dealing with the modern challenges surrounding encryption. "The solution is not, of course, that encryption should be weakened, let alone banned. But neither is it true that nothing can be done without weakening encryption," he said, adding that it was wrong to see every attempt to tackle the misuse of encryption by criminals and terrorists as a "backdoor". Mr Hannigan reiterated that the British government position - as set out in the new investigatory powers bill - would not outlaw the type of end-to-end encryption which is at the heart of the row between Apple and the FBI. Drawing the boundaries Instead, he said, it will demand companies take reasonable and practical steps to provide data when demanded. "Within the parameters set by legislation, it should be possible for technical experts to sit down together and work out solutions to particular manifestations of the abuse of encryption." Such conversations were more common before the Snowden revelations , officials say, but since then companies have withdrawn and referred requests to their lawyers. The decision about where to draw the boundaries was not one for either the companies or the spies, Mr Hannigan said, but instead for lawmakers. "It is not for me, as an intelligence official and civil servant, or for a law enforcement officer to make these broad judgements, whether about the use of data in general or encryption in particular; nor is it for tech company colleagues nor even for independent academics. "Since the trade-offs are for society as a whole, it must surely be for elected representatives to decide the parameters of what is acceptable." Antony Walker, deputy chief executive of techUK, an organisation which represents tech firms, said the solution lay in government, academia and industry working together. "These are hugely complex issues," he said. "This speech makes it very clear that there are no easy answers. It is a realistic assessment of the trade-offs that need to be made to secure our digital world. "We must not jeopardise our long-term security."Paris attacks: Silicon Valley in crosshairs over encryption Dave Lee 18 November 2015 Comments Weakened security is weakened for all, experts warn Grief over the Paris attacks will soon make way to demands for action. As well as increased military activity, and the controversial suggestions to close the door on refugees, the next battle in the "surely something can be done" arena will be aimed squarely, and angrily, at Silicon Valley. Tech companies were already under pressure to make it easier for governments to access "private" communication apps and services. Those calls have intensified greatly since the attacks in Paris. "If you create a product that allows evil monsters to communicate in this way, to behead children, to strike innocents - whether it's at a game in a stadium, in a small restaurant in Paris, take down an airline - that is a big problem," Dianne Feinstein, who chairs the Senate Intelligence Committee, told MSNBC. "We need hi-tech's help in securing an internet [where] even with a court order you can't get to what they're saying. "That's a big problem." Cracking comms The "problem" is to do with encryption. Without encryption, all of the things we do online would be insecure, be it emailing, or shopping, or banking. They all rely on the principle that if you encrypt data using complex mathematics it is nigh-on impossible to crack. If you're using communication apps such as WhatsApp, Apple's iMessage, WeChat and so on, your messages are encrypted by default. It means that even if those companies wanted to hand over your messages to law enforcement, they couldn't. A locked phone is locked for everyone - including Apple and Google That's bad, some say. "There are a lot of technological capabilities that are available right now that make it exceptionally difficult, both technically as well as legally, for intelligence and security services to have the insight they need to uncover it," said CIA director John Brennan at a security forum on Monday. "And I do think this is a time for particularly Europe, as well as here in the United States, for us to take a look and see whether or not there have been some inadvertent or intentional gaps that have been created in the ability of intelligence and security services to protect the people that they are asked to serve." An opinion column in the New York Times , authored by Manhattan's district attorney, and the City of London Police commissioner, said "encryption blocks justice". In the piece, published back in August, they wrote about a murder near Chicago in which a father of six had been shot. At the scene, officers found two mobile phones. But they were passcode locked. Neither Google or Apple (the phones ran their software) could unlock the phones, and therefore the data was inaccessible. "On behalf of crime victims the world over," the opinion piece read, "we are asking whether this encryption is truly worth the cost." After Paris It's an argument that can be made with more vigour than ever after the Paris attacks. With access to communications, the anti-encryption advocates say, we could perhaps stop these tragic events from occurring. That's a claim worth scrutinising. It's early days in the investigation, and no evidence has yet been offered to show that encrypted communications were used to organise the atrocity. But, given that much of the world's population - from gossiping teenagers to deal-making business people - are using encryption regularly, it's not a wild assumption to consider that the attackers were too. The attacks in Paris will energise calls for more access to communications data But technology industry is, on the whole, against the suggestion that law enforcement should have "backdoors" into popular services - the term given to a hidden way of circumventing the app's security. A backdoor, in the infosec world, is the term given to a method in which a supposedly secure system can be accessed. It could be a quirk in some code, or a vulnerability in how a system communicates. Whatever the weakness, typically, once backdoors are made public, they are fixed. Hackers make serious money by discovering backdoors and selling them on - often to government security services. Many in law enforcement and government feel there should be a backdoor made just for those in authority to investigate and stop criminals and terrorists. But some of tech's most influential figures say that the notion of a secure, secret backdoor is dangerously misguided. If any backdoor exists, hackers will find it eventually. It would mean data security for all of us, not just criminals, would evaporate. No key The Edward Snowden leaks about mass surveillance changed the landscape in this debate dramatically. Faced with user backlash over apparent cooperation with the US government, technology companies were desperate to show they could be trusted. "We can't provide it." - Apple's Tim Cook on turning over iMessages They quickly implemented changes that were essentially designed to put them in a position of being able to credibly say: "Listen, even if we wanted to help, we couldn't." "If the government laid a subpoena to get iMessages, we can't provide it," said Apple boss Tim Cook, speaking last year to US public broadcaster PBS. "It's encrypted and we don't have a key. And so it's sort of - the door is closed." For a company that is reluctant to say much about anything, Apple is bullish on encryption. At a dinner event earlier this year, Mr Cook pressed home his view. He said calls for intentional backdoors for government as an attack on "civil liberties". "If you put a key under the mat for the cops," he said. "A burglar can find it too." Momentum But Silicon Valley companies are preparing themselves for a backlash against this attitude. Post-Snowden, the Obama administration was compelled to rejig its rules over data gathering, acknowledging that some of the actions of its security services were unconstitutional. Great news for Silicon Valley and privacy advocates. Gone is the wholesale collection of some types of data. In its place, a more selective means of data mining, but, crucially, a backing off of trying to get Apple et al to back down on their views over encryption. But after Paris, we could see a shift in momentum. A memo uncovered by the Washington Post, sent three months ago by Robert Litt, a lawyer working for the US National Intelligence office, said that while attitudes towards creating government backdoors were "hostile", that atmosphere "could turn in the event of a terrorist attack or criminal event where strong encryption can be shown to have hindered law enforcement". Paris may just be that event. Offshore haven But if it is, how effective would those suggested measures be? One of the apps being used extensively by so-called Islamic State is Telegram, a secure messaging app founded by Russian brothers Pavel and Nikolai Durov. Telegram is being used by IS to broadcast messages The app allows broadcast channels, and my colleagues at BBC Monitoring logged that at least 4,500 people were listening to IS's channel on Telegram. Any US decision to force back doors into software wouldn't affect what Telegram does. The company is based in Berlin. Any attempt by European authorities would probably fall on deaf ears - the Durovs are no strangers to evading what they see as government meddling. Pavel Durov founded VKontakte (known now as VK), a social network with the lion's share of audience in Russia. It's not unfair to call it a Facebook clone - it looks almost identical. When Russian authorities wanted more access to the discussions on VK, Pavel fled. Telegram has repeatedly ignored the BBC's request for comment on this, and other, stories. But on Instagram, Pavel made his feelings on the Paris attacks clear . "I think the French government is as responsible as IS... for this, because it is their policies and carelessness which eventually led to the tragedy," he said. "They take money away from hardworking people of France with outrageously high taxes and spend them on waging useless wars in the Middle East and on creating parasitic social paradise for North African immigrants. "It is a disgrace to see Paris in the hands of short-sighted socialists who ruin this beautiful place." In a comment posted to his profile on VKontakte, Pavel, as quoted by the Moscow Times , mocked the suggestion his app should be blocked. "I propose banning words," he said. "There's evidence [to suggest] that they're being used by terrorists to communicate." Weak The attitude displayed by Pavel Durov exposes, pro-encryption advocates say, the inherent flaw in the argument for allowing government access. If Apple, Google, Facebook and others were compelled by law to introduce backdoors, terrorists would probably just move, as they have done already, to other platforms with a more anarchistic approach. It would leave services "normal" people use far less secure, while dangerous people would be operating on systems that are even harder to gain access to, with proprietors who are proudly anti-government. In the coming days, statements from politicians and law enforcement will be made, directed at the technology companies that handle our day-to-day communications. They'll be forced to look cooperative while not undermining the promises they made after the Snowden revelations. Put up against military or diplomatic action, taking affirmative steps against communication apps may seem an easy win in the war against terrorism. But like so many challenges the world faces - it's simply nowhere near as straightforward as it seems. Follow Dave Lee on Twitter @DaveLeeBBCFBI director: We must understand the 'costs' of encryption The FBI director, James Comey, has stressed the importance of understanding "the costs associated with moving to a world of universal strong encryption". He insisted that he "loves privacy" but emphasised that the ability of law enforcement bodies to access people's information was important for security reasons. 25 February 2016 BBC News TechnologyShould firms be more worried about firmware cyber-attacks? By Mary-Ann Russon 8 April Computing giant Microsoft recently put out a report claiming that businesses globally are neglecting a key aspect of their cyber-security - the need to protect computers, servers and other devices from firmware attacks. Its survey of 1,000 cyber-security decision makers at enterprises across multiple industries in the UK, US, Germany, Japan and China has revealed that 80% of firms have experienced at least one firmware attack in the past two years. Yet only 29% of security budgets have been allocated to protect firmware. However, the new report comes on the back of a recent significant security vulnerability affecting Microsoft's widely-used Exchange email system . And the computing giant launched a range of extra-secure Windows 10 computers last year that it says will prevent firmware from being tampered with. So is this just an attempt to divert attention and sell more PCs, or should businesses be more worried? How a firmware attack works Firmware is a type of permanent software code used to control each hardware component in a PC. Increasingly, cyber-criminals are designing malware that quietly tampers with the firmware in motherboards, which tell the PC to start up, or with the firmware in hardware drivers. This is a sneaky way to neatly bypass a computer's operating system or any software designed to detect malware, because the firmware code is in the hardware, which is a layer below the operating system. Security experts have told the BBC that even if IT departments are following cyber-security best practices like patching security vulnerabilities in software, or protecting corporate networks from malicious intrusions, many firms are still forgetting about the firmware. "People don't think about it in terms of their patching - it's not often updated, and when it is, sometimes it breaks things," explains Australian cyber-security researcher Robert Potter. Mr Potter built the Washington Post's cyber-security operations centre and has advised the Australian government on cyber-security. "Firmware patching can sometimes be tricky, so for a lot of companies, it's become a blind spot." A screenshot of the RobbinHood ransomware There have been several major firmware attacks discovered in the last two years, such as RobbinHood , a ransomware that uses firmware to gain root access to a victim's computer and then encrypts all files until a Bitcoin ransom has been paid. This malware held the data of several US city governments hostage in May 2019 . Another example is Thunderspy , an attack that utilises the direct memory access (DMA) function that PC hardware components use to talk to each other. This attack is so stealthy that an attacker can read and copy all data on a computer without leaving a trace, and the attack is possible even if the hard drive is encrypted, the computer is locked, or set to sleep. "If device firmware has no protection in place, or if the protection can be bypassed, then firmware compromise is both incredibly serious and potentially invisible," explains Chris Boyd, a malware intelligence analyst at security firm Malwarebytes. "Remote or physical compromise which permits rogue code to run can set the stage for data theft, system damage, spying, and more." Big organisations beware The good news is that firmware attacks are less likely to target consumers, but big firms should beware, according to Gabriel Cirlig, a security researcher with US cyber-security firm Human (formerly White Ops). "It is a big deal, but fortunately it only works against big organisations, because you need to target specific types of motherboards and firmware," he tells the BBC. Typically, cyber-criminals tend to attack operating systems and popular software, because they only make money if they can infect the biggest numbers of end users. Firmware attacks are less common and more complicated to implement than other types of cyber-attacks, but unfortunately the coronavirus pandemic has accelerated the problem. The pandemic has led to a sharp rise in devices connecting remotely to critical corporate network infrastructure The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), an agency within the US Department of Commerce, continually updates a National Vulnerability Database (NVD) with new security flaws. The database has recorded a five-fold increase in attacks against firmware in the last four years. Coronavirus lockdowns in multiple countries have led to multiple employees working from home and connecting remotely to work servers. Each one of those computers and mobile devices is an opportunity. Carrying out a firmware attack might be complex, says Mr Cirlig, but if attackers could silently steal critical information from a c-suite executive's laptop, like passwords, they could then use it to infiltrate a company's networks and steal more data. Nation-state hackers would be most likely to use such an attack, he adds. "This is a big operation with big pay-offs - it's not something that a small group of cyber-criminals has the manpower to do." Creeping soon to a network near you Although firmware attacks are not as ubiquitous as phishing scams, malware or other cyber-attacks, the cyber-security experts the BBC spoke to say now is the time for businesses, and the technology industry as a whole, to pay attention to hardware security . Hardware and firmware designers need to be included in the cyber-security discussion, say experts "Firmware attacks are not common on a day-to-day basis, but that's because people don't realise they're being infected by such an attack," says Mr Boyd. "It's like when ransomware first came onto the scene - people didn't know of anyone who was infected by it, and if big organisations were, they wouldn't tell anyone about it, as there was an element of shame, not wanting their clients to know they'd been infected." Mr Boyd adds that a new generation of "budding hardware enthusiasts" who have been learning their way around firmware by "modding video game consoles over the last decade" could well pose additional threats to enterprise cyber-security going forward - a point Mt Cirlig fervently agrees with, since he hacked the firmware in his own car when he was younger. "Microsoft is right to raise this as a major issue, because we need to bring firmware designers and operational technologies along the journey of cyber-security, the way we have with software companies," says Mr Potter. "As we connect more things to the internet, we're connecting a lot more devices that haven't been designed with cyber-security in mind. And if the trend continues, bad guys will go after it."UN human rights chief backs Apple in FBI encryption row 4 March 2016 Prince Al Hussein said there were "other ways" to investigate the gunman's connections. Zeid Ra'ad Al Hussein, high commissioner for human rights at the United Nations, has warned that a "Pandora's box" will be opened if Apple co-operates with the FBI. The FBI has ordered the tech giant to assist it with unlocking an iPhone used by San Bernadino gunman Syed Farook. Prince Al Hussein said the law enforcement agency "deserves everyone's full support" in its investigation. However, encryption was essential in the interests of freedom, he added. "There are many ways to investigate whether or not these killers had accomplices besides forcing Apple to create software to undermine the security features of their own phones," he said in a statement . "It is potentially a gift to authoritarian regimes, as well as to criminal hackers. "Encryption and anonymity are needed as enablers of both freedom of expression and opinion, and the right to privacy. Without encryption tools, lives may be endangered." Syed Rizwan Farook and his wife Tashfeen Malik killed 14 people and left 22 injured when they opened fire at his place of work in California in December 2015. The FBI has asked Apple to disable a feature that means the data on an iPhone is erased after 10 incorrect attempts at the four-digit password. It also wants to be able to run software that could go through the 10,000 possible combinations to unlock the gunman's handset quickly. Apple says agreeing to the request would set "a dangerous precedent" . Tech support A number of major tech firms have also pledged their support for Apple's refusal to circumvent its own security. Two groups of tech giants have now filed an amicus brief, which allows parties not directly involved in a court case, but who feel they are affected by it, to give their view. They include Twitter, AirBnB, eBay, LinkedIn, Reddit, Amazon, Microsoft, Snapchat and Yahoo. However, a lawyer representing a group of Farook's surviving victims said he would file similar legal paperwork on their behalf in support of the FBI. "They were targeted by terrorists, and they need to know why, how this could happen," said Stephen Larson, a former judge. He declined to say how many of the victims he was representing, but did add that he would not be charging them a fee.Millions at risk from 'Freak' encryption bug 6 March 2015 Microsoft said it was working on a secure update to close the Freak loophole Microsoft has issued a security warning about a bug that could let attackers spy on supposedly secure communications. Called "Freak", the bug was found in software used to encrypt data passing between web servers and web users. Initially the flaw was thought only to affect some users of Android and Blackberry phones and Apple's Safari web browser. Microsoft's warning suggests millions more may be at risk of losing data. The Freak flaw was discovered by encryption and security expert Karthikeyan Bhargavan and lets attackers force data travelling between a vulnerable site and a visitor to use weak encryption. This makes it easier to crack open the data and steal sensitive information. Statistics gathered by a group set up to monitor the impact of the Freak flaw suggest about 9.5% of the web's top one million websites are susceptible to such attacks. The monitoring group has also produced an online tool that lets people check if they are using a browser that is vulnerable to the flaw. Vulnerable Apple is expected to produce a patch for the flaw next week and Google has updated its version of Chrome for the Mac to remove its susceptibility to Freak. It has yet to say what action it is taking with Android. In a security advisory note released on 5 March, Microsoft said every current version of Windows that uses Internet Explorer, or any non-Microsoft software that calls on a part of Windows called Secure Channel, was vulnerable to the Freak flaw. Microsoft has issued advice about ways to remove the vulnerability from some of its software but said applying these fixes could cause "serious problems" with other programs. It said it was working on a separate security update to remove the vulnerability. In its advisory , Microsoft said it had not received any information that suggested the attack was being actively exploited by cybercriminals.Yahoo executive challenges NSA over encryption demands 24 February 2015 Yahoo's security chief Alex Stamos clashed with Adm Mike Rogers, the director of the US National Security Agency A Yahoo executive has publicly challenged the National Security Agency (NSA) over encryption "backdoors". Alex Stamos pressed NSA director Adm Mike Rogers on whether the access to encrypted data requested by the US authorities should also be granted to the Russian and Chinese governments. Adm Rogers insisted an agreement could be reached "within a framework". The tense exchange came after many top tech figures refused to attend a White House cybersecurity summit this month. "If we're going to build defects, backdoors or golden master keys for the US government, do you believe we should do so... for the Chinese government, the Russian government, the Saudi Arabian government, the Israeli government, the French government?" asked Mr Stamos, Yahoo's chief information security officer. After initially dodging the question, Adm Rogers - who took over as director of the NSA last year - responded: "I think that we're lying that this isn't technically feasible. "Now, it needs to be done within a framework. I'm the first to acknowledge that." Adm Mike Rogers testifying before a Senate committee while a vice-admiral According to a transcript provided by the Just Security website , he argued that he did not want the FBI and NSA to unilaterally decide what access they should have, but insisted an agreement was achievable. Pressed on whether he thought that access should also be granted to other nations' governments, Adm Rogers said: "I think we can work our way through this." Mr Stamos responded: "I'm sure the Chinese and Russians are going to have the same opinion." The exchange took place before delegates at a cybersecurity conference hosted by the New America Foundation on Monday. The US authorities want to ensure they have access to encrypted data in order to investigate crime There has been an increasingly tense relationship between the US authorities and Silicon Valley since information was leaked by NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden. Encryption of user data has subsequently become increasingly popular and, in some cases, the companies hand over the keys to users, making it difficult to break. But the White House has asked tech firms to share more data with law enforcement agencies. And the US authorities want them to build in vulnerabilities that they would be able to exploit. The rift was illustrated when, earlier this month, senior Google, Yahoo and Facebook executives turned down invitations to a White House cybersecurity summit at Stanford University. Tim Cook, of Apple, was one of the few top tech bosses to appear. Adm Rogers told the conference on Monday that the NSA needed a way to access data if it was believed that a device was "being used for criminal, or in my case, foreign intelligence or national security issues". But he acknowledged that there were legitimate concerns to be addressed before a "legal framework" could be established.Encryption key to free speech, says UN report 29 May 2015 Weak encryption systems undermine free speech and privacy, said the UN report Encryption software that makes it hard to spy on what people do and say online is "essential" for free speech, says a United Nations report. Without anonymising tools, many people will find it far harder to express opinions without censure, it says. Any attempt to weaken encryption software will only curb this ability, it warns. The report comes as many governments seek to put "backdoors" in encryption software to aid law enforcement. "Encryption and anonymity, separately or together, create a zone of privacy to protect opinion and belief," says the report written by David Kaye , a special rapporteur in the UN's office of the high commissioner for human rights. No backdoors The tools to bestow such protection are essential, it says, given the "unprecedented capacity" governments, companies, thieves and pranksters now have to interfere with people's ability to express themselves. Lacking such tools, it adds, many people will be unable to fully explore "basic aspects of their identity" such as their gender, religion, ethnicity, origins or sexuality. The software acts as a "shield" for opinions against external scrutiny - a fact that is "particularly important in hostile political, social, religious and legal environments", says the report. "States should not restrict encryption and anonymity, which facilitate and often enable the rights to freedom of opinion and expression." The report acknowledges the need for police forces and other agencies to get at encrypted messages and other communications - but says this should be done on a "case-by-case" basis and should not be applied to a "mass of people". It also cautions against the use of backdoors and weak encryption systems that can put anonymity in peril as much as they aid law enforcement. The report is being released against a background of calls from the US and UK governments to hobble encryption - so intelligence agencies and others have access to scrambled communications to help tackle crime and terrorism. Mr Kaye's report is due to be presented to the UN's Human Rights Council in June.The government's data law - an attack on encryption? Rory Cellan-Jones @BBCRoryCJ 27 May 2015 Overdue modernisation of the way the authorities monitor criminals and terrorists - or a Snooper's Charter eroding our basic liberties? The proposal outlined in the Queen's Speech to "modernise the law on communications data" will divide opinion. But prepare for another long battle over the way that law is framed and the balance it strikes between privacy and public safety. The row over forcing internet service providers (ISPs) to hold on to far more data about their users' online activities has stretched over three parliaments. The idea first came up under the last Labour government, when it was quashed by Conservative and Liberal Democrat opposition. Then it was resurrected by the Coalition, with Theresa May's plans - immediately dubbed the Snooper's Charter - blocked by her Liberal Democrat partners. Now we have in the Queen's Speech what looks like a much wider proposal for a new Investigatory Powers Bill. The government says this will "provide the police and intelligence agencies with the tools to keep you and your family safe", will "maintain the ability of our intelligence agencies to target the online communications of terrorists", and will "cover all investigatory powers including communications data, where the government has long maintained that the gap in capabilities are putting lives at risk". So it is both sweeping and vague, promising to give the authorities the tools they need to track criminals in a complex online world without specifying as yet how far they will be allowed to go. The Open Rights Group (ORG), which campaigns against increased surveillance, is convinced this is the return of the so-called Snooper's Charter, with increased powers of data collection and retention aimed at the entire population, coupled with attacks on encryption. The ORG's executive director Jim Killock thinks the bill will have two aims - codifying existing practices by the intelligence agencies uncovered by Edward Snowden and expanding data retention by ISPs. But he believes that the increasing use of encryption by the likes of Google and Facebook means that ordering ISPs to store their customers' data won't be enough: "There's going to be a very interesting discussion about whether government can break encryption or order companies to break it." Those at the sharp end - the ISPs - are more circumspect in their response to the government's plans. Their trade body ISPA put out a statement welcoming the fact that the government had promised to factor in the independent Anderson review of the laws on intercepting communications data. But it warned of the need to "properly balance security, privacy, costs to industry and to preserve the UK's reputation as a leading place to do business online".  The ISPs also suspect that plans to attack encryption could be on the agenda. The government has a clear election mandate, and is under pressure from the police and intelligence agencies to give them more capabilities in their online battles. But the opposition to its plans - if they do involve cracking the codes that keep online communication secret - will be intense. And it is likely to come not so much from opposition politicians, but from the global technology giants.LogJam encryption flaw fix will block some websites By Leo Kelion 20 May 2015 The LogJam attack vulnerability could mean encrypted communications could still be spied upon Web-browser makers are preparing a fix for a flaw in an encryption algorithm that makes it possible to spy on supposedly secure communications. However, the updates will mean a minority of websites will be blocked by the new software. The " LogJam attack" was discovered by researchers at Microsoft and a number of US and French universities. They believe about 8% of the top one million HTTPS security-protected sites are made vulnerable by the flaw. Users would therefore be given false reassurance by the padlock icon that such sites display in a browser's address bar. Some email servers and services that use the Transport Layer Security (TLS) cryptographic protocol are also at risk of being hacked until their operators update their systems. Export controls The LogJam attack vulnerability is a legacy of the US 1990s-era export restrictions on cryptographic tools. These limited the complexity of the secret encryption codes that could be generated by "international versions" of US-made software, including Netscape's web browser. The export rules were later relaxed, but the researchers say an unintended consequence is that a commonly used process, called a Diffie-Hellman key exchange, can be compromised by a "man-in-the-middle" attack. The flaw allows hackers to make target systems use a weaker than desired encryption key A Diffie-Hellman key exchange was one of the first techniques developed to allow two or more parties to create and share an encryption key by exchanging parts of the key in public. What the researchers discovered was that by intercepting the communications, a hacker could ensure a 512-bit key was used rather than a more complicated one. In this context, 512-bit means there are two to the power of 512 possible combinations - representing a huge number. Nevertheless, the researchers said it was still possible for computers to crack such codes in "minutes". Even more complicated types of encryption were susceptible to cyber-spies using supercomputers at the National Security Agency, they added. "In the 1024-bit case, we estimate that such computations are plausible given nation-state resources, and a close reading of published NSA leaks shows that the agency's attacks on VPNs [virtual private networks] are consistent with having achieved such a break," they wrote. Nevertheless, the fix that web-browser makers have agreed on is that their software should block 512-bit or weaker encryption keys. Users may not be able to access some website after they upgrade their browser "The solution is relatively simple - you disable this legacy function on your system," said Prof Alan Woodward, a cybersecurity expert at the University of Surrey. "Unfortunately, some older web servers might then be prevented from starting a secure conversation with the updated web browsers as they would support only that older, shorter, weaker key lengths. "But do you really want this backward compatibility if it means others could be forced to use this weaker form of encryption? "Browsers can be updated and servers can be reconfigured easily, and it really is no bad thing to force this to happen bearing in mind the alternative is that a 'secure connection" could potentially be broken by an eavesdropper." According to a report by the Wall Street Journal , it has been estimated that 20,000 websites could become blocked as a consequence. 'Storm in a teacup' Mozilla - which is responsible for the Firefox browser - said its new software should be released in the "next few days". The NSA is thought to be capable of breaking 1024-bit encryption "Most of the coordination in this case was done thanks to the researchers who found the bug. They provided valuable measurement data to the various browser vendors, which allowed us all to calibrate our response," said Richard Barnes, the organisation's cryptographic engineering manager. Another security expert said that internet users should not be worried about being unprotected in the meantime. "The fact that LogJam can only be exploited when hackers and targets are on the same network, as well as patches being imminent, means that hype around it is likely to be a bit of a storm in a teacup," said Ross Brewer, from security research company LogRhythm. "Organisations should, however, use flaws like this as an excuse to give themselves a security health check. "With flaws like LogJam being identified with increasing frequency, the only real way to know you're safe is to know you can stop an attack in its tracks as soon as it gets going."2014: The year of encryption By Paul Rubens 10 January 2014 Companies are under pressure in the current environment to make sure their encryption is up to scratch "The solution to government surveillance is to encrypt everything." So said Eric Schmidt, Google's chairman, in response to revelations about the activities of the US National Security Agency (NSA) made by whistle-blower Edward Snowden . Schmidt's advice appears to have been heeded by companies that provide internet-based services. Microsoft, for instance, says it will have "best-in-class industry cryptography" in place for services including Outlook.com, Office 365 and SkyDrive by the end of the year, while Yahoo has announced plans to encrypt all of its customers' data, including emails, by the end of the first quarter of 2014. For many smaller businesses too, 2014 is likely to be the year of encryption. That's certainly the view of Dave Frymier, chief information security officer at Unisys, a Pennsylvania-based IT company. But he believes the driving force for this will be different: not government surveillance programmes, but the threat of attacks from hackers. Diamonds and paperclips Rather than encrypting everything, Mr Frymier advocates that companies identify what he believes is the 5%-15% of their data that is really confidential, and use encryption to protect just that. He says employees should then be barred from accessing this data using standard desktop and laptop machines or their own smartphones or tablets, which can easily be infected with malware. Access would be restricted to employees using secure "hardened" computers. Dave Frymier from Unisys says the threat posed by hackers will drive firms to invest in encryption "When you look at the increasing sophistication of malware, it becomes apparent that you need to establish highly protected enclaves of data. The only way to achieve that is through modern encryption, properly implemented," says Mr Frymier. "You can split your data into diamonds and paperclips, and the important thing is to encrypt the diamonds, and not to sweat the paperclips." Prakash Panjwani, a general manager at Maryland-based data protection company Safenet, also believes that the large number of high-profile data breaches in 2013 - including hacker attacks on US retailer Target , software maker Adobe , and photo messaging service Snapchat - means that 2014 will inevitably be a bumper one for encryption vendors. "Snowden has focused attention on surveillance issues, but the real threat is organised crime and the number of data breaches that are occurring," he says. "Companies are going to come under extreme pressure from boards, customers and regulators in 2014 to take action so that if there is a data breach they can say, 'We didn't lose any data because it was encrypted.'" Keeping the regulator happy A large number of companies already use encryption to protect the data they store on their own systems "at rest", as well as data "in flight" as it is sent over networks to customers, other data centres, or for processing or storage in the cloud. Using a longer encryption key will make it harder for hackers to access your data But Ramon Krikken, an analyst at Gartner, believes that the way encryption is used by many of these companies is likely to change in 2014. "Companies are certainly going to have to take encryption more seriously thanks to the Snowden revelations," he says. "At the moment many companies are using encryption for compliance reasons, not for security. They are not using it to protect their data, but because it is the easiest way to comply with regulations: encryption is the auditor's and the regulator's favourite check box item." 'Back doors' One question that companies will need to consider is which encryption algorithm or cipher to use to best encrypt their data. It's an important question as some older ciphers can now be "cracked" relatively quickly using the computing power in a standard desktop PC. And there is a question mark over whether the NSA may have deliberately used its influence to weaken some encryption systems - or even to introduce "back doors" that provide easy access to encrypted data to anyone who knows of their existence. "The problem is that even if you can inspect the source code, it is certainly not a given that you would be able to spot a back door," Mr Krikken says. US whistle-blower Edward Snowden's revelations have made companies take encryption more seriously He believes it is more important to establish where all the parts of an encryption solution come from. "If you procure software or hardware from overseas, from a country with a government which does not have your best interests at heart, you need to remember that it may not be as secure as you think," Mr Krikken says. "So you have to decide who you trust, and find out where the vendor gets all the parts of its product from." Don't be cheap Another thing companies need to consider when they implement encryption is how strong the encryption should be. Using a longer encryption key makes it harder for hackers or governments to crack the encryption, but it also requires more computing power. But Robert Former, senior security consultant for Neohapsis, an Illinois-based security services company, says many companies are overestimating the computational complexity of encryption. "If you have an Apple Mac, your processor spends far more time making OS X looks pretty than it does doing crypto work." He therefore recommends using encryption keys that are two or even four times longer than the ones many companies are currently using. "I say use the strongest cryptography that your hardware and software can support. I guarantee you that the cost of using your available processing power is less than the cost of losing your data because you were too cheap to make the crypto strong enough," he says. "No-one ever got fired for having encryption that was too strong."FBI boss 'concerned' by smartphone encryption plans 26 September 2014 Mr Comey said the FBI was talking to Apple and Google about their data-scrambling plans Plans by Apple and Google to do more to protect customers' privacy have made the FBI "very concerned". Speaking to reporters, FBI boss James Comey said the plans to enable encryption by default could thwart law enforcement investigations. Lives could depend on police forces continuing to get access to the data on devices used by criminals and terrorists, he said. The FBI was talking to both Apple and Google about its fears, said Mr Comey. Protect privacy The conversations with tech firms needed to be had before the day when police forces lost access to those devices, he said. "I'd hate to have people look at me and say, 'Well how come you can't save this kid?' 'How come you can't do this thing?'" said Mr Comey in a briefing. His comments came in reaction to a decision by Apple to enable a file encryption system on its iOS 8 software for which it has no keys. This means it would not be able to comply with any official request to help police get at the data on those devices. Google has said it too is planning to enable a similar encryption system by default on the next version of Android. Mr Comey said he was "very concerned" about these plans because of what they would allow people to do. "What concerns me about this is companies marketing something expressly to allow people to place themselves beyond the law," he said. "I am a huge believer in the rule of law, but I am also a believer that no-one in this country is beyond the law," he added. Apple and Google have yet to respond to Mr Comey's comments. Ten days prior to Mr Comey's press statement, iOS data forensics expert Jonathan Zdziarski pointed out that Apple's encryption system would not stop police getting at data on portable devices. Specifically weakening security systems just to aid the police was a bad decision, he said. "For the sake of privacy and overall security, the only logical solution is to make products as secure as possible, and let good detective work do the crime solving, rather than an easy button," he wrote in a blogpost .Google and Apple to introduce default encryption By Joe Miller 19 September 2014 Google's devices have offered the option of encryption, but many users did not make use of the feature Google has announced that its next mobile operating system, Android L, will encrypt users' data by default. The measure will make it more difficult for private information to be hacked or handed to law enforcement agencies. On Thursday, Apple said that devices running its new iOS8 software would be encrypted by default, with even the company itself unable to gain access. Both firms have offered encryption for some time, but many users were unaware of its existence or had not enabled it. Earlier this week, Apple's boss Tim Cook posted an online message assuring users the company's philosophy was that a "great customer experience shouldn't come at the expense of your privacy". Swipe As well as announcing default encryption for all devices running the new iOS8 software, Mr Cook took a thinly veiled swipe at Google, saying that Apple would not use its customers' information to sell things to them. "We don't 'monetise' the information you store on your iPhone or in iCloud," he wrote, "and we don't read your email or your messages to get information to market to you." He added that although Apple does have an advertising business, called iAd, the function can be disabled by users. Shortly after, Google announced its stance on privacy, also embracing default encryption. A spokesman said: "For over three years, Android has offered encryption, and keys are not stored off of the device, so they cannot be shared with law enforcement. "As part of our next Android release, encryption will be enabled by default out of the box, so you won't even have to think about turning it on." Both Apple and Google follow in the footsteps of the now somewhat beleaguered Blackberry, which has encrypted data by default for some time. The firms' focus on privacy comes after nude photos of celebrities were leaked online earlier this month. The breach, which affected actress Jennifer Lawrence, among others, was linked by some security experts to vulnerabilities in Apple's iCloud storage service. Law enforcement The introduction of default encryption also protects US firms from having to hand over data to law enforcement agencies. As the companies themselves do not have access to users' passwords, which unlock the encryption, they are not actually in possession of the data concerned. Several of the largest US tech firms have been fighting government requests for their users' private data, including Microsoft, Google, Twitter, Facebook and Dropbox. David Emm, a senior researcher at security firm Kaspersky Lab, told the BBC that automatic encryption was "probably more about privacy than about protection". "Customers will find some reassurance in the fact that their data can't routinely fall into third-party hands," he said. However he added that the measure only "applies to stuff on a [Apple or Android] device, but not necessarily to stuff you put in the cloud, which could still be accessible to law enforcement agencies".Do quantum computers threaten global encryption systems? By Mark Ward 12 August 2014 The modern world is a house of cards built upon encryption. Make a mobile phone call and encryption is there to stop eavesdroppers listening in. Spend money online and encryption ensures your card number and identity cannot be scooped up and used elsewhere. And the money that keeps global banking systems lubricated only does so thanks to cryptographic software that turns a stream of data into unintelligible nonsense. Remove all that encryption and the whole lot comes tumbling down. If that happens we might return to an era when commerce was mostly done face-to-face and based around who you know. Scrambled Yet quantum computers - another modern marvel - are threatening to make this doomsday scenario a reality. Why? "Because of the possibilities for massive parallelism," says Prof Mark Manulis, a cryptographic expert from the University of Surrey's department of computing. In other words, because of a quantum computer's potential ability to do trillions of calculations a second. When a message is scrambled with a modern encryption system, the keys used to lock it are typically very large numbers - tens, if not hundreds, of digits long. Finding that key means using a computer to carry out lots of sums and then trying each answer to see if it unlocks a message an attacker is interested in. If encryption fails then we might return to a very different type of commerce The sheer number of possible answers lends protection because it would take centuries, or longer, to find the right key. Unless large-scale quantum computers are commonplace, says Prof Manulis. Quantum computers can crank through those sums so fast because their basic building blocks, known as qubits, can be used to represent both a zero and a one at the same time. By contrast the computational elements, bits, of the classical computers under our desks and on our laps represent either a zero or a one. Not both. The curious properties of the quantum realm mean that when those qubits work together you get a vast rise in computational power - hence the potential they have to speed things up, find keys and crack codes. Number crunching Most significantly affected by the arrival of quantum computers are the public key infrastructure (PKI) systems we use to establish secure channels of communication online. Typically, when you turn up at a website it is PKI that sets up the initial connection. With that secure channel created, different encryption systems that are much less susceptible to attack by quantum computers are used to protect data shuttling back and forth. "Public key cryptography is based on problems from number theory, integer factorisation and discrete logarithms, that will be broken once we have powerful quantum computers," said Prof Manulis. Canadian firm D-Wave sells a working quantum computer The key word here is "once". But that once might be a long time coming, believes Dr Stephan Ritter, who studies quantum computers at the Max Planck Institute for Quantum Optics in Garching, Germany. "Quantum computers are not very powerful at the moment but they have this potential, and that's what this is about," he told the BBC. "Experimentally I would say that we are at the stage where it's not even clear which physical elements they will be made of." Researchers have yet to agree on the best way to build these qubits and how to link them together. So far, Dr Ritter says, only quantum computers with a small handful of qubits have been made - a long way from the hundreds and thousands needed to make it able to do useful work and do it quickly. "There are proofs of concept of these building blocks but they all have advantages or disadvantages, so it's unclear which will be the best as we go forward," he says. Controversial Despite what Dr Ritter sees as a lack of progress, Canadian firm D-Wave will sell you a working quantum computer if you have $15m (£8.9m) to spare. The way it operates is controversial and its price suggests it will not be the widely available device that can crack all our codes. Even when they are available, says Dr Ritter, we should not think of them as wonder machines that speed up any and every batch processing job or database search. Purest-ever silicon in quantum fix US scientists have created a very pure form of silicon-28, an essential component of a quantum computer "They are good for very specific tasks," he says, "but not everything is faster with a quantum computer and there will be many tasks you will not use one for at all." As a result we should have a few years yet to update and improve our encryption systems as research and development work on quantum computers continues. 'Badly broken' That's just as well, says Dr Tanja Lange, a coding theory and cryptology expert from the Technical University of Eindhoven, as it can take a long time for older encryption systems to be swapped out in favour of more secure alternatives. For instance, she says, it took five to six years to swap out the widely used MD5 data scrambling system once its weakness was demonstrated through a viable attack. Timescales can stretch for systems already used widely in the field, such as those found in cash machines, smart cards and mobile phones. "However, if a system is absolutely badly broken, roll-out can be faster," she says. "RSA sent new tokens promptly after they had a break-in and credit card companies are used to replacing cards if there is a risk that they were compromised." Encryption ensures that no-one can listen in to you while you walk and talk What will be harder, she says, is migrating everyone to the software systems that can resist attack by quantum computer. At the very least such systems require much bigger encryption keys and that means they are much less efficient - for which read, slower. "We hope that with another three to five years of research we can design systems that are smaller, but we're not there yet," she says. "Currently we can give you a tank with concrete enforcement - it's secure but big. "We hope to find a way to give you a secure sports car with airbags, ABS and all that neatly hidden away in a sleek design."Telegram offers award to crack encryption 19 December 2013 Telegram says entrants will have to give a detailed description of how they cracked the encryption Telegram, a secure messaging service app, has offered a reward to the first person who can crack its encryption. The firm's founder has put up an award of $200,000 (£122,000) worth of Bitcoins for breaking the protocol. To win the award, users will have to intercept a daily message between the founders Pavel and Nikolai Durov to find out a secret email address. They have to send the decrypted text of the message to the email address to prove they have cracked the protocol. Telegram, which says it is "the fastest and most secure messaging system in the world", said users would also have to give a detailed description of how they cracked the encryption. The firm says it will publish encrypted Telegram traffic between the two founders on its website and users can view it in real time. "To prove that the competition was fair, we will publish the participating keys necessary to decrypt the traffic as soon as a winner is announced," the firm said. In case there is no winner by 1 March 2014, encryption keys will be published on that date.Cyber attack targets Norwich-based Flagship Group 5 November 2020 Flagship Group has experienced an IT systems data breach Customer and staff data has been "compromised" in a security breach of a social housing provider's IT system. Flagship Group, based in Norwich, said the cyber attack on 1 November took "most of our group's systems offline". It said the incident had been caused by a suspected phishing or ransomware attack. It said it had closed down its online systems while it was investigated, and had reported the breach to police and the Information Commissioner's Office. On its website it said: "Despite our quick action, there has been some data encryption and some personal customer and staff data has been compromised. "We do not yet have a complete picture of all the data that has been encrypted." The company also said it had "a high level of security measures" in place to protect data. Flagship Group owns some 31,000 homes in the East of England and employs 1,200 people in its facilities, repairs, maintenance and heating departments. In 2017-18, it had an annual turnover of £133.7m It has tenants in Norfolk, Suffolk, Cambridge and Essex and also builds and sells houses to private owners. 'Considerable disruption' Chief executive David McQuade apologised to tenants affected by the breach and those experiencing delays in having repairs carried out. "We are now working towards the recovery of all our systems," he said. "The incident has caused considerable disruption to our staff and customer services and we are concentrating on emergency situations, to ensure our customers are safe." The firm said the matter had also been reported to the Regulator of Social Housing. Norfolk Police said it was being dealt with by the National Cyber Security Centre . The Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) confirmed it had been informed. Find BBC News: East of England on Facebook , Instagram and Twitter . If you have a story suggestion email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.ukOperation Venetic: Man in court charged with drugs offences 2 March The operation was led by the National Crime Agency A 33-year-old man from south Armagh has appeared in court in Newry charged in connection with the supply of Class A and Class B drugs. William John Hewitt, of Lower Foughill Road in Jonesborough, is also accused of being involved in an arrangement to acquire criminal property and conspiring to import cannabis. The charges follow a National Crime Agency-led operation in the Newry area on Monday as part of Operation Venetic. Thirteen classic cars were also seized. Prosecution barrister Robin Steer said the investigation follows police obtaining encrypted data on encrypted handsets last year. The court heard that the handsets cost in the region of £1,200 to £1,500 each. The prosecution said evidence secured from the breaking of the encrypted network indicated Mr Hewitt is "involved in drug dealing at a very high level and part of a network". The classic cars were seized by police during a series of searches. A notebook was also found behind a microwave in Mr Hewitt's home which the prosecution said contains terminology, including slang terms for drugs, for use on encrypted calls. Sums of money totalling around £2m were also recorded in the book. In total the vehicles were valued at between £500,000 and £750,000 The court heard that to date around 25 people have been charged in relation to Operation Venetic which began in July 2020. The vast majority of these people have subsequently been granted bail. However, the prosecution objected to Mr Hewitt being granted bail "at this early stage". They said this was in relation to concerns that he could frustrate the investigation or flee across the Irish border. Bail refused Mr Hewitt's defence solicitor said the latter was not a realistic objection as, "practically everyone in Northern Ireland lives within an hour of the border" and that "it was well reported that the encrypted network had been cracked last year and there was no suggestion he has tried to abscond since". In relation to the issue of frustrating the investigation, the defence solicitor said that the court could put reporting requirements on the defendant, that they could tag him, place him under a curfew and freeze his assets. However, Deputy District Judge Phillip Mateer refused bail, stating: "I'm not satisfied the conditions would give the court confidence that he wouldn't abscond. As the prosecution has said, it is still at an early stage and the concern is that he may frustrate the police investigation by dealing with assets that are not yet known." Mr Hewitt was remanded into custody and will appear in court again on 24 March.How the modern world depends on encryption By Mark Ward 25 October 2013 Encryption helps to ensure that credit card transactions stay secure Encryption makes the modern world go round. Every time you make a mobile phone call, buy something with a credit card in a shop or on the web, or even get cash from an ATM, encryption bestows upon that transaction the confidentiality and security to make it possible. "If you consider electronic transactions and online payments, all those would not be possible without encryption," said Dr Mark Manulis, a senior lecturer in cryptography at the University of Surrey. At its simplest encryption is all about transforming intelligible numbers or text, sounds and images into a stream of nonsense. There are many, many ways to perform that transformation, some straightforward and some very complex. Most involve swapping letters for numbers and use maths to do the transformation. However, no matter which method is used the resulting scrambled data stream should give no hints about how it was encrypted. During World War II, the Allies scored some notable victories against the Germans because their encryption systems did not sufficiently scramble messages. Rigorous mathematical analysis by Allied code crackers laid bare patterns hidden within the messages and used them to recreate the machine used to encrypt them. Those codes revolved around the use of secret keys that were shared among those who needed to communicate securely. These are known as symmetric encryption systems and have a weakness in that everyone involved has to possess the same set of secret keys. In the modern era, a need has arisen to communicate securely with people and organisations we do not know and with whom we cannot easily share secret keys, said Dr Manulis. This need has given rise to public-key cryptography. Despite the formidable name it encapsulates a simple idea. Wartime code-cracking machines such as Colossus broke German encryption systems Essentially, it allows anyone to send a message that only one person (or company or website or gadget) can unlock. It does this using two keys: one public, one private. The public key is used to lock a message. Anyone can get hold of that public key but once a message is locked with it, that message can only be opened with the corresponding private key. Typically these keys are large numbers and the security of the system depends on the fact that some mathematical operations are easier than others. For instance, it is far easier to multiply numbers together (public key and plain text message) to get a result than it is to start with that result (the scrambled message) and work backwards. Complicated mathematics guarantees that the right private key will unscramble a message. Far harder, even for the fastest computer, is starting with that result (the scrambled message) and searching through all the possible combinations of numbers that could produce it. "Because of the size of the keys is so huge its impossible for an attacker to search through the key space with the resources they usually have," he said. Such "brute force" attacks are pretty much doomed no matter how much computer power attackers bring to bear, he said Typically the numbers used in these mathematical encryption systems are tens if not hundreds of digits long. This makes it impossible, to all intents and purposes, to search through all potential keys in a reasonable amount of time. The web and many other modern communication systems employ a hybrid approach, said Dr Manulis, because public key encryption is not very computationally efficient compared to symmetric key encryption. Even supercomputers would not break the strongest encryption algorithms On the web, the relatively slower public key cryptography is used initially to establish a secure connection between you and a website. The symmetric system would be no good for this step because there is no way to securely swap the secret key. However, with a secure channel in place, the faster symmetric system can be used to share a key and then scramble the data passing back and forth. On mobiles, a similar system is used and encryption keys are held on a handset's sim card to help keep chatter scrambled. Vulnerabilities Attacks on these encryption systems take many forms, said Dr Manulis. "You do not need to break the communication system if you have some spy software on the end point," he said. In addition, weaknesses have been found in the software used to encapsulate them on computers and phones. "The algorithms are mathematically proven," he said, " and if there's any problem then it usually comes in the implementation of the algorithm." In addition, there have been suggestions that the NSA has subverted the process of creating encryption algorithms, to make them easier for it to break. Official agencies can also force firms, be they websites or mobile operators, to surrender their private keys so they can eavesdrop on supposedly secure communications. Some have sought to get make encryption more secure by using a technique known as end-to-end encryption. This differs from more standard systems which can be vulnerable because their scrambling system is, in software terms, separate from the program used to create a message. If attackers insert themselves between the message making software and the encryption system at either end of a conversation they will see information before it is scrambled. End-to-end encryption closes this gap by having the message making software apply the scrambling directly. In addition, many of these systems run a closed network so messages never travel over the public internet and are only decrypted when they reach their intended recipient. Some fear that sending data over public networks makes it more susceptible to surveillanceCounty Lines 'Manc Joe' drug gang's Anthony Kamara jailed 11 February Anthony Kamara got involved in the drugs gang after losing his job at Jaguar Land Rover, the court heard An eighth member of a county lines drugs gang which used teenagers as slaves has been jailed for six years. Anthony Kamara, 33, was tracked down by police who cracked secret messages the group sent in encrypted messages. The 'Manc Joe' gang operated from Liverpool and ran hundreds of thousands of pounds worth of heroin and crack cocaine to Exeter during the first seven months of 2020. Seven other gang members were sentenced at Exeter Crown Court last year. County lines is where urban drug gangs expand their markets for crack cocaine and heroin into smaller towns and cities. Kamara, of Ritson Street, Toxteth, Liverpool, admitted conspiracy to supply heroin and cocaine and was jailed for six years by Judge Peter Johnson. The judge told him: "You played a highly significant and active part in bringing drugs down and taking money back and running the phones." Peter Coombe, for the prosecution, said Kamara's role was only just below that of organiser Connor Wilbraham, 21, from Merseyside, who set up the drugs line while on the run from the police. Wilbraham was jailed for seven and a half years in December. In November, five other men aged between 21 and 46 were jailed for between two-and-a-half and four years each. Lewis Rees, now aged 18, of Woodchurch Estate, Birkenhead, was sentenced to two years, suspended for two years. Mr Rees was deemed to be a modern slave by the national referral mechanism and charges against a 16-year-old were dropped after he received a similar adjudication. The gang were caught because their street dealers became highly visible to police during the first lockdown and detectives were able to trace the leaders through the encrypted messages on their phones. They used the street names of 'Manc Joe' or 'Joey' in an apparent attempt to hide their Merseyside origins. Peter White, defending Kamara, said he was drawn into the conspiracy after he lost his job with Jaguar Land Rover.US-UK encryption hacking: 'Scale is surprising' Documents from the former US intelligence contractor, Edward Snowden, suggest US and British security agencies have managed to unlock the internet encryption codes protecting the emails, banking and medical records of hundreds of millions of people. The reports have been published by the New York Times and the Guardian in London. Dr Herb Lin is the chief computer scientist at the United State's National Research Council. He said he was surprised that the agencies would attempt to break encryptions on such a 'large scale'. 6 September 2013The race to create the world's next super-app By Karishma Vaswani 5 February QR codes for payment via super-apps Alipay and WeChat are a common sight on Chinese market stalls How many apps do you have on your phone? If you're anything like me, it's a lot. But imagine installing just one app that does almost everything - from buying a pizza, hailing a taxi, chatting to your friends and even booking a massage. It does exist and it's known as a super-app. There are two major players in the market and the most popular, with over a billion users , is WeChat. Created in 2011 by Chinese tech giant Tencent, WeChat started life as a messaging platform. It is now estimated to offer more than one million services through mini programmes, which are apps created by third-party companies and accessible through WeChat. That means you never have to leave WeChat's virtual universe (except perhaps to go to the bathroom). Most of these services are only available to users in China, which is why you may not have heard of it despite its dominance. The other main player is Ant Group's Alipay, which also has more than one billion users and offers 120,000 mini programmes. Angeline Liu sells on WeChat and says it's a part of "daily life" Business booms on WeChat Singapore-based Chinese entrepreneurs Angeline Liu and Angee Teng saw a unique opportunity to tap into WeChat's captive audience. "WeChat is a part of our daily life that we [can't] live without," says Ms Liu, who spends two to three hours a day on the app. "Basically everything you need is within this one app and every part of your life is touched [by it]." Three years ago they launched a business selling premium meat to Chinese customers in Singapore. "You can browse the products, make purchases, make payments and complete the whole cycle within this app," Ms Liu says. They don't advertise through traditional channels or social media yet business is booming, with tens of thousands of dollars worth of orders rolling in every month. Angeline Liu sells premium meat via WeChat Why is China so good at creating super-apps? China leapfrogged into the internet era, which means people went from telephones to smartphones pretty quickly. This allowed internet companies to innovate in a way their counterparts in the West haven't been able to. Rui Ma, who co-hosts the podcast Techbuzz, tells me it's also because data laws in China are quite different. "In the West we have a lot of rules and regulations, creating a lot of friction around these services that in China the government simply hasn't gotten around to regulating," she says. How a little Ant became a financial giant That's not the only reason. "Chinese internet companies think of building entire ecosystems, versus product-first or product-centric companies," she says. "They're not just building a feature or one service. They're thinking about how to take the user's entire lifestyle and move it online." A life lived online means a lot of transactions and a lot of data. Under Chinese law, all companies - not just WeChat - can be compelled to hand over that data to the ruling Communist Party. The Australian Strategic Policy Institute (ASPI) says it has found evidence of censorship on WeChat in China and warns this could also happen to overseas users. Under Chinese law, all firms can be compelled to hand over data to the ruling Communist Party. "The risks associated with WeChat's lack of end-to-end encryption is that Tencent and WeChat can have access to any of your data on WeChat," says Audrey Fritz, who co-authored an ASPI report looking at the Communist Party's influence on Chinese internet firms. "[They are] bound by [China's] cyber-security laws to give any data on WeChat or any of their apps to the government, if the Communist Party should request that." Tencent told the BBC it complies with the laws and regulations of each market it operates in, adding that user privacy and data security are core values. "User privacy and data security are core values at Tencent. We hold ourselves to the highest standards in protecting our users while ensuring we comply with all laws and regulations in the markets in which we operate," the company said. Concern over privacy and data security could be among the reasons it has been difficult for these Chinese apps to expand overseas. Throw in the fact that the domestic market in China is so big, there's really no need to go anywhere else. Indonesian-based Gojek has grown from a motorcycle-hailing platform to offering other services South East Asia a contender to produce the next super-app The race to build the world's next super-app is revving up and many of the frontrunners are based in South East Asia. With 600 million people spread across the region, there are already half a dozen companies vying for their attention. Grab, Gojek and the SEA Group are among the biggest and best funded. Chinese companies Alibaba and Tencent have invested in them, as have US firms including Facebook, Google and PayPal. Indonesian-based Gojek has grown from a motorcycle-hailing platform to an app offering car rides, payments and food delivery. Gojek co-chief executive Kevin Aluwi says the region is a natural fit for super-apps. "Having to only download one single app is something that is probably uniquely appealing to a part of the world where, for most people, the first real experience of the internet happened on mobile." Perhaps surprisingly for a company that calls itself a super-app, Mr Aluwi says Gojek isn't trying to monopolise its users' time. "Many super-apps view their objective as to increase the amount of time that customers are actually viewing their app," he says. "For us, we want our customers to get in, find the thing they need to solve their problem at that moment and then get out and get on with their lives."RSA warns over NSA link to encryption algorithm 23 September 2013 RSA believes the encryption algorithm may contain a vulnerability RSA, the internet security firm, has advised its customers not to use a particular encryption algorithm after fears it could be unlocked by the US National Security Agency (NSA). In an advisory note to its developer customers, RSA said that a community-developed algorithm in one of its toolkits could contain a vulnerability. It "strongly recommends" switching to other random number generators instead. The warning came from the US National Institute of Standards and Technology. The advice comes in the wake of New York Times allegations that the NSA may have intentionally introduced a flaw into the algorithm - known as Dual Elliptic Curve Deterministic Random Bit Generation - and then tried to get it adopted as a security standard by the US National Institute of Standards and Technology. Privacy In the 1990s, the NSA tried to claim the right to unlock all encryption systems, but lost the battle after privacy rights and freedom of speech advocates objected. The NSA maintains that it needs to be able to decipher encrypted communications to protect the US against terrorism and organised crime. A replica of Alan Turing's Bombe decryption machine used during WWII: Throughout history governments have tried to decipher secret messages As the documents leaked by the former government security contractor Edward Snowden have demonstrated, the NSA has been intercepting communications data from all over the world through its Prism surveillance programme. But it is locked in a continuous battle with cryptographers who are developing increasingly sophisticated security systems. One of the NSA's tactics has been to persuade leading technology companies, such as Microsoft and Google, to co-operate with the security services in providing access to user data. Privacy rights campaigners have been concerned over how far this co-operation may extend. Under US law, service providers have to hand over user data to the NSA but are not allowed to publish how many security-related data requests they receive. A growing number of providers are beginning to stand up to the government and demand more transparency. For example, the Digital Due Process Coalition, which is calling for reform of the 1986 US Electronic Communications Privacy Act (ECPA), includes companies such as Apple, Google, Facebook, Amazon, Linkedin and Microsoft. The coalition argues that the ECPA has been outpaced by the rapid rise of the internet and the explosion of digital data.Merseyside drug dealer who fled police naked is jailed 12 March Thomas Brabbins had no clothes on and was carrying just a mobile phone A drug dealer who tried to escape police by fleeing naked through an upstairs window has been jailed. Thomas Brabbins was wearing no clothes and carrying just a mobile phone when he left his home in Huyton, Merseyside. Officers had raided the Cherry Tree Road house and found more than £30,000 in cash and two Rolex watches worth more than £10,000 in June. The 28-year-old was jailed for seven-and-a half-years at Liverpool Crown Court. He is among several people jailed in the region as part of an international investigation into criminals using the Encrochat encrypted messaging service. Brabbins posted images of cannabis on the Encrochat messaging network Brabbins admitted conspiracy to supply cocaine and cannabis, possession of cannabis - including with the intent to supply - and possession of criminal property. He was using the handle "coastalsummer" when he manufactured and distributed large quantities of the drugs from his home, Merseyside Police said. He was released under investigation after his arrest but was later rearrested after being seen acting suspiciously in a car on 12 November. Another image apparently showed a preparation of cocaine The National Crime Agency said Encrochat is often used by criminals to trade drugs and guns. It was infiltrated last summer, leading to more than 1,000 arrests, including about 70 held by officers in Merseyside. Police compared the operation to "cracking the Enigma code" in their fight against organised crime. Bundles of cash were found at Brabbins's home Merseyside Police said about 60,000 users of Encrochat had been identified worldwide, with about 10,000 of them in the UK. Det Sgt Anthony Meakins said: "Brabbins thought that by using encrypted devices he could evade justice. He was wrong, and he won't be last to realise this." Why not follow BBC North West on Facebook , Twitter and Instagram ? You can also send story ideas to northwest.newsonline@bbc.co.ukSmart doorbells 'easy target for hackers' study finds 23 November 2020 Which said the Victure VD300 transmitted its owner's wi-fi name and password unencrypted Major security flaws in popular smart doorbells are putting consumers at risk of being targeted by hackers inside their homes, according to Which. The consumer group says devices being sold on marketplaces such as Amazon and eBay, could easily be  hacked or switched off by criminals. It is asking the government for new legislation to safeguard consumers. Amazon has removed at least seven product listings in response to the findings. The watchdog tested 11 devices which were purchased from popular online marketplaces in the UK. Brands included Qihoo, Ctronics and Victure. It found that among the most common flaws were weak password policies, and a lack of data encryption. Two of the devices in the test could be manipulated to steal network passwords and then hack other smart devices within the home. Amazon UK's current number one bestseller in smart doorbells, the Victure Smart Video Doorbell, was found to send users' home network names and passwords unencrypted to servers in China. The BBC has asked Victure for comment. Convenience v Security Lisa Forte, a partner at Red Goat Cyber Security, which specialises in cyber-security testing, said consumers may inadvertently be putting convenience before security. "Generally speaking the more convenient something is, the less secure it is," she told the BBC. "The more connected devices you have in your home, the more 'doors' there are for cyber-criminals to open. This investigation highlights how many brands aren’t putting the security of their customers first. "If you have decided to purchase a smart doorbell, make sure it is from a well-known, trusted brand. When you set it up change the default password to something long, and if possible enable two-factor authentication in the set-up," she added. Two-factor authentication (2FA) is when a secondary step is introduced to the log-in process, such as a code sent as an email or text. While Amazon removed several products from sale, eBay told Which? that none of the findings violated its own safety standards. A spokesman for the marketplace said the flaws represented "technical product issues that should be addressed with the seller or manufacturer". Kate Bevan, Which? Computing editor, said better regulation was needed. "Government legislation to tackle unsecure products should be introduced without delay and must be backed by an enforcement body with teeth that is able to crack down on these devices."Snowden leaks: US and UK 'crack online encryption' US and UK intelligence have reportedly cracked the encryption codes protecting the emails, banking and medical records of hundreds of millions of people. Disclosures by leaker Edward Snowden allege the US National Security Agency (NSA) and the UK's GCHQ successfully decoded key online security protocols. They suggest some internet companies provided the agencies backdoor access to their security systems. The NSA is said to spend $250m (£160m) a year on the top-secret operation. Gordon Correra looks at how much the government actually knows about us. 6 September 2013Snowden leaks: US and UK 'crack online encryption' 6 September 2013 US and UK intelligence have reportedly cracked the encryption codes protecting the emails, banking and medical records of hundreds of millions of people. Disclosures by leaker Edward Snowden allege the US National Security Agency (NSA) and the UK's GCHQ successfully decoded key online security protocols. They suggest some internet companies provided the agencies backdoor access to their security systems. The NSA is said to spend $250m (£160m) a year on the top-secret operation. It is codenamed Bullrun, an American civil-war battle, according to the documents published by the Guardian in conjunction with the New York Times and ProPublica. The British counterpart scheme run by GCHQ is called Edgehill, after the first major engagement of the English civil war, say the documents. 'Behind-the-scenes persuasion' The reports say the UK and US intelligence agencies are focusing on the encryption used in 4G smartphones, email, online shopping and remote business communication networks. The encryption techniques are used by internet services such as Google, Facebook and Yahoo. Under Bullrun, it is said that the NSA has built powerful supercomputers to try to crack the technology that scrambles and encrypts personal information when internet users log on to access various services. The NSA also collaborated with unnamed technology companies to build so-called back doors into their software - something that would give the government access to information before it is encrypted and sent over the internet, it is reported. As well as supercomputers, methods used include "technical trickery, court orders and behind-the-scenes persuasion to undermine the major tools protecting the privacy of everyday communications", the New York Times reports . The US reportedly began investing billions of dollars in the operation in 2000 after its initial efforts to install a "back door" in all encryption systems were thwarted. 'Gobsmacked' During the next decade, it is said the NSA employed code-breaking computers and began collaborating with technology companies at home and abroad to build entry points into their products. The documents provided to the Guardian by Mr Snowden do not specify which companies participated. The NSA also hacked into computers to capture messages prior to encryption, and used broad influence to introduce weaknesses into encryption standards followed by software developers the world over, the New York Times reports. Computer scientist Dr Herb Lin says he is surprised by the scale of the alleged hacking When British analysts were first told of the extent of the scheme they were "gobsmacked", according to one memo among more than 50,000 documents shared by the Guardian. NSA officials continue to defend the agency's actions, claiming it will put the US at considerable risk if messages from terrorists and spies cannot be deciphered. But some experts argue that such efforts could actually undermine national security, noting that any back doors inserted into encryption programs can be exploited by those outside the government. It is the latest in a series of intelligence leaks by Mr Snowden, a former NSA contractor, who began providing caches of sensitive government documents to media outlets three months ago. In June, the 30-year-old fled his home in Hawaii, where he worked at a small NSA installation, to Hong Kong, and subsequently to Russia after making revelations about a secret US data-gathering programme. A US federal court has since filed espionage charges against Mr Snowden and is seeking his extradition. Mr Snowden, however, remains in Russia where he has been granted temporary asylum.Snowden leaks: US and UK 'crack online encryption' Documents from the former US intelligence contractor, Edward Snowden, suggest US and British security agencies have managed to unlock internet encryption codes that protect the emails, banking and medical records of hundreds of millions of people. The reports have been published by the New York Times and the Guardian in London. Emily Thomas reports. 6 September 2013Flintshire drugs operation: Three men jailed for 15 years 19 March Left to right: Darren Roberts, Daniel Taylor and Stephen Metcalf Three men involved in a "sophisticated" operation to import heroin and cocaine worth more than £180 million have each been jailed for 15 years. Daniel Taylor, 41, from Holywell, Flintshire, intercepted parcels where he worked at a UPS depot in Deeside. He handed them to Darren Roberts, 44, from Bagillt, who gave them to Stephen Metcalf, 43, from Bromborough, Wirral. All three were sentenced at Mold Crown Court on Friday after admitting conspiracy to import drugs. Prosecutor Ffion Tomos said it was a "well-oiled" operation headed by a man at large abroad. The court heard between May 2019 and October 2020, 150 packages were imported, mostly undetected. French authorities intercepted encrypted phone messages which led to the drugs operation being uncovered. Four seizures were made of drugs worth more than £2 million. Volunteer rugby coach Taylor of Glan Y Don, plumber Roberts of Cadnant Drive and lorry driver Metcalf of Fairway North were told the drugs could have caused "untold misery". Sentencing them, Judge Rhys Rowlands said: "The conspiracy demonstrated both sophistication and professionalism in its execution and was born out of a desire to make money."School cyber-attack affects 40,000 pupils’ email 29 March Pupils using Harris Federation devices have had them disabled A ransomware attack on multiple schools has left 37,000 pupils unable to access their email. The Harris Federation, which runs 50 primary and secondary academies in and around London, said it had temporarily disabled email while it deals with the cyber-attack. Data on the systems has been encrypted and hidden by the attackers. Last week, the National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) issued a warning that hackers are targeting schools. 'Sophisticated attack' “We are at least the fourth multi-academy trust to have been targeted in March,” a statement on the Harris Federation website said. “This is a highly sophisticated attack that will have a significant impact on our academies but it will take time to uncover the exact details of what has or has not happened, and to resolve. “As a precaution, we have temporarily disabled our email system.” Any devices which the Harris Federation have given to pupils have also been disabled, the statement added. However, schools have recently returned to in-person learning as part of the easing of lockdown restrictions - meaning students can still attend classes. Technology explained: what is ransomware? Harris Federation schools break up for Easter later this week. Its statement did not detail what information or data has been compromised, and it has not yet responded to the BBC's request for comment. The trust is working with “a specialised firm of cyber-technology consultants”, the National Crime Agency and the NCSC to resolve the issues. The NCSC said it has "recently alerted the education sector to the significant threat posed by ransomware attacks" and urged schools and colleges to follow its advice to protect themselves online. It used to be the case that ransomware groups concentrated their efforts on large multinational companies. Big corporate budgets and potential business interruption mean large ransom payouts. Publicly funded schools and colleges are therefore an odd and particularly cruel target. One hacker group recently posted part of their negotiation conversation with another unnamed institution on the dark net. It made for grim reading, and once again showed me how ruthless they are. At one stage, when the hackers demanded $15m, the school wrote: "Sir, please, this is NOT a business with profits. We operate much like a charity operates. This is a state-funded school, our salaries are paid for by taxing the people that live in the state. We have no idea how you think we can afford this." This wave of attacks in the US and UK show the hackers have no regard for where the money comes from or who is affected.Zoom 'unsuitable' for government secrets, researchers say By David Molloy & Joe Tidy 3 April 2020 The UK Cabinet has been meeting via Zoom - something researchers say may not be ideal The hugely popular video meetings app Zoom has "significant weaknesses" which might make it unsuitable for secrets. A team at The Citizen Lab found that Zoom was using a non-standard type of encryption, and transmitting information through China. Government use - such as Boris Johnson's use of the app for Cabinet meetings - may not be wise, the researchers warned. But the app is fine for keeping in touch for most people, they said. Until recently, Zoom was used mainly by large businesses for video conference calls. But the explosion in users during the coronavirus pandemic has created "a new gold rush for cyber-spies", The Citizen Lab's report said. It warned that Zoom "may not be suitable" for: But for people using Zoom for contacting friends, holding social events or organising courses or lectures, "our findings should not necessarily be concerning", the report said. Analysis: Still fine for most By Joe Tidy, Cyber-security Reporter Zoom says there are now 200 million meetings held on it every day, and despite the serious flaws uncovered in this latest report, it's probably safe to say that 199 million of them are not in danger. The Citizen Lab has shown compelling evidence here that it is possible to collect all the data of a video meeting and then partially unscramble it to find out, roughly, what was said and what was seen. However, it would take a huge amount of time and effort for a hacker to achieve this - and it simply wouldn't be worth the effort for an average work huddle or friendly pub quiz held on the service. It's the high-level talks at company board level, or in government, that will be targeted. The government has been led by the National Cyber Security Centre and other security experts on this since the beginning. The goal has always been to allow for open and smooth communications to take place, but this research may well lead to the advice on Zoom changing fast. "Zoom has made the classic mistake of designing and implementing their own encryption scheme, rather than using one of the existing standards for encrypting voice and video content," said Bill Marczak, a Research Fellow at The Citizen Lab. "To be sure, Zoom's encryption is better than none at all, but users expecting their Zoom meetings to be safe from espionage should think twice before using the app to discuss sensitive information." The research has not taken the security services in the UK by surprise and it is understood that a project is working "at pace" to adapt existing communication systems to the demands of home working and security. The UK's National Cyber Security Centre issued a statement saying: "Zoom is being used to enable unclassified crisis COVID-19 communications in the current unprecedented circumstances. Assured services are in place for more sensitive communications and the provision of these services is being widened given the demands of much greater remote working." The government is not disclosing which meetings are eligible for Zoom and which ones are not. As an example, the BBC was told that Zoom is safe for Cabinet-level discussions but not for emergency Cobra meetings. A Chinese 'heart' for the US company Aside from the encryption standards, the researchers also found that Zoom sends traffic to China - even when all the people in a Zoom meeting are outside of China. "During multiple test calls in North America, we observed keys for encrypting and decrypting meetings transmitted to servers in Beijing, China," the report said. Zoom remains hugely popular despite the concerns expressed in some quarters The report also pointed to the strong involvement of Chinese firms in the company. Zoom has its headquarters in the US, but has about 700 employees across three companies in mainland China working on the app's development. "Running development out of China likely saves Zoom having to pay Silicon Valley salaries, reducing their expenses and increasing their profit margin. However, this arrangement could also open up Zoom to pressure from Chinese authorities," the report said. A 'roll your own' approach The team said there are mixed and confusing messages around the type of encryption that Zoom actually uses. In some places, it tells users that it uses "end-to-end" encryption - the gold standard for secure messaging, which makes it impossible for the service, or any other middlemen, to access data. In its documentation, Zoom has said it uses a type of encryption called AES-256. But the researchers said this is not true. Instead, Zoom has "rolled their own" encryption - using a variant of something called AES-128 in "ECB mode". Among security researchers, ECB mode "is well understood to be a bad idea", because it preserves some of the patterns of the original, the report said . The report highlighted that "ECB mode" preserves patterns, and is "a bad idea" The report also says that Zoom does not use end-to-end encryption "as most people understand the term". Instead, it uses "transport" encryption between devices and servers. "Because Zoom does not implement true end-to-end encryption, they have the theoretical ability to decrypt and monitor Zoom calls," the report said. But it noted that Zoom itself has already addressed this concern, promising that they have never built such a mechanism, even if it is theoretically possible. During their research, the team was able to extract a still image from a video meeting using the encryption key. Zoom clarified its encryption policy on 1 April, apologising for incorrectly suggesting that meetings were capable of end-to-end encryption. It also moved to quell fears about privacy and security issues, promising to spend the next 90 days exclusively working on  "trust, safety, and privacy issues". Alan Woodward, a professor of computer science at Surrey University, told the BBC that a major fix is needed. "I don't believe this is something that Zoom can just add to their list of jobs to do in the next 90 days. It's possible, but this requires a re-engineering of the way they encrypt their calls, so it's a major undertaking." Prof Woodward added: "I would not use Zoom for any sensitive or secret discussions."Online abuser jailed for 'brainwashing' boy, 15, to send sexual images 1 April The boy's parents removed his computer, but his abuser sent him a phone to send more images, the court heard A 15-year-old boy shared sexual images of "extreme self-harming" after being groomed online. Cardiff Crown Court heard he thought he was sending hundreds of images to his girlfriend over the course of a year. But they were in fact sent to Darren Hart, 29, from Glasgow, who has been jailed for eight-and-a-half years. Hart, who pleaded guilty to 10 charges of sex offences, befriended the boy through online gaming, then created a fake persona. Prosecution barrister Matthew Roberts told the court the boy was told he had to send the images because the woman had been captured in America and "was being held by a gang who would hurt and rape her if he didn't do what was being demanded of him". The court heard the boy's parents removed computer devices from him after concerns were raised at school and indecent images were found on them. But his abuser Hart, managed to send him an internet-enabled mobile phone so he could continue sending the extreme images, which were sent through multiple encrypted social media accounts to the fictitious girlfriend. Mr Roberts said the boy had been "totally brainwashed by the defendant" into making hundreds of images and videos of sexual acts of "extreme self-harming at the direction of the defendant". Hart was arrested while on his way, with his stepfather, to meet the boy in south Wales and to "remove him for sexual purposes to Scotland" without the knowledge of his parents. Hart's phone had 364 images and 192 videos of the boy along with a note containing a "shopping list of requirements" of acts for the boy to carry out. Family's 'horror' The court heard that the boy saw his family as "the enemy", although their relationship had been repaired recently. In a victim impact statement, the boy's father told the court of his "horror that this abuse could be carried out anonymously from behind a keyboard". He added: "I shudder at what happened and what could have happened if the defendant had succeeded in taking away my son". The boy said he had hundreds of physical scars as a result and had carried out the acts because he felt that his girlfriend was "in peril and danger". He added that he felt he had lost a lot of his childhood and found it hard to trust people. Defence barrister Susan Ferrier told the court that Darren Hart had an "introverted character" with no history of offending. She said that was a "lonely man who struggled with his mental health" and who had been in a secret relationship with his stepfather since he was 18. She said the offending had occurred in a gap in that relationship. He pleaded guilty to 10 charges of sexual offences at an earlier hearing. Recorder Timothy Brennan said Darren Hart had committed "multiple offences over a long period by cruel deception" and that the case was "so astonishing, were it not known to be true, it would be difficult to believe". He said Hart had shown an inability to realise how serious the offences were and that there was a "significant risk" of further offending. Hart was sentenced to eight-and-a half years in prison with an extended period of four years on licence. He must also comply with a sexual harm prevention order indefinitely.Biden inauguration: What are far-right Trump supporters saying? By Alistair Coleman and Shayan Sardarizadeh 19 January Mass armed protests initially called for by some extreme Trump supporters in the lead-up to inauguration day have so far not materialised, following an apparent change of heart by the groups involved. One flyer shared on Gab, a Twitter-like platform popular with far-right groups, had called for armed protests in Washington and 50 state capitals ahead of Joe Biden's inauguration. The plans prompted a warning from the FBI . But in recent days those calls have been reversed and a new theory put forward on fringe platforms - that plans for armed protests were instead a "trap" set up by the FBI, or supporters of the left-wing Antifa or Black Lives Matter (BLM) groups. Some of these discussions have been happening on less popular and less public online platforms, where many Trump supporters from far-right and conspiracy groups have migrated after being kicked off Facebook and Twitter in the wake of the Capitol riots on 6 January. The vast majority of armed rallies that were initially being promoted have so far not gone ahead following the warnings. On Sunday, despite earlier fears of violence, there were only a few armed protesters in front of state capitols in several states, including Michigan and Ohio. Those who did turn out were not dedicated Trump supporters but mainly members of the extreme libertarian Boogaloo Bois movement, whose followers advocate an armed overthrow of government. A lone MAGA protester left his sign near the statehouse in Trenton after he realized no one else showed up to the pro-Trump state capital rally today. pic.twitter.com/hUj6FvlW2U — Matt Katz (@mattkatz00) January 17, 2021 View original tweet on Twitter Despite a continued belief in unsubstantiated claims of election fraud, many of Mr Trump's supporters seem resigned to the reality that Mr Biden will be inaugurated as president on Wednesday. Although some claim they will never accept him as their president. Alongside the new online warnings to avoid armed protests in Washington DC and elsewhere, there are a few posts by furious supporters of the president calling for "guerrilla warfare". The lack of armed protests for now could be down to "increased fear about crackdowns by law enforcement following the 6 January," says Alex Newhouse, research lead at the Center on Terrorism, Extremism, and Counterterrorism in the US. He also warns of a different kind of threat from the Capitol riots: "The level of desensitisation to concepts like race war, civil war, and political violence that occurs in these chatrooms means that if even a tiny fraction of 1% of followers take it seriously, that could indicate a higher potential of individual acts of extreme violence." Influential QAnon figures were among those who broke into the Capitol And what about the baseless QAnon conspiracy theory, which has been blamed for radicalising so many and whose members were among those that stormed the Capitol? QAnon followers remain convinced that somehow Mr Trump, with the help of the military, will successfully overturn the outcome of the election on inauguration day. They believe Mr Trump will invoke the Insurrection Act, a rarely used 1807 law that allows the president to deploy military forces inside the US. There is no evidence to suggest this could happen. Followers of the conspiracy have also been sharing false or doctored images and videos of the fencing around the Capitol building - built to ensure the safety of those attending the inauguration and avoid a repeat of the 6 January riots - with claims the fencing is in fact a military prison which will be used to entrap Mr Biden and members of the so-called "deep state". There's also an increasing sense of paranoia. Groups on alternative platforms that openly called for violence on 6 January now worry aloud that they have been infiltrated by government agents or left-wing activists. Owners and moderators of right-wing social media platforms have posted messages asking members not to post incitement to violence. Pro-Trump supporters banned from mainstreams apps are finding alternative online homes But violent threats against House speaker Nancy Pelosi, a Democrat, and Republican Vice-President Mike Pence, whom the groups had hoped would overturn the election result, remain widespread. The move away from mainstream platforms poses a risk, according to Mina al-Lami, jihadism specialist at BBC Monitoring, who sees parallels with Islamist militant groups who have been subject to similar crackdowns. "Members of the fringe far-right may now slip under the radar into closed spaces which use end-to-end encryption," a very secure method of exchanging messages, she says. "Their radicalisation goes unchecked and unmonitored." The social media giants acted to remove QAnon groups after the violence in Washington, but they have quickly rebuilt themselves elsewhere. On Gab, groups dedicated to QAnon now boast more than 500,000 members. A similar new channel on Telegram has more than 100,000 subscribers. Meanwhile, accounts spreading conspiracy theories and potentially inciting violence have emerged in surprising places. TikTok, the short-form video platform hugely popular among young people, has seen a flood of clips from pro-Trump militia groups. TikTok videos from militia groups are concerning, says Ciaran O'Connor of the Institute for Strategic Dialogue, a think tank focused on extremism and hate groups. Users have been sharing footage of members preparing firearms, as well as promoting false claims that President Trump has activated the Insurrection Act. Extremist supporters have been taking advantage of TikTok's slow moderation process, which means that videos can stay online for long periods of time before they are deleted for violating the network's terms of service, Mr O'Connor says. Some of the more violent and conspiratorial pro-Trump groups may have been scattered across the internet following purges at mainstream platforms, but that doesn't mean they've gone away. They realise they're under close scrutiny from the US authorities, but they're preparing to dig in for a long fight. Votes, viruses, victims: 2020 in disinformation A special programme from the BBC Trending team. Listen now on BBC Sounds. Subscribe to the BBC Trending podcast or follow us on Twitter @BBCtrending or Facebook .EU must 'move at speed' on space broadband network Jonathan Amos @BBCAmos 12 January Artwork: The ambitious target is to have an initial service by 2024 and a full service by 2027 The European Commission says it wants its newly proposed satellite mega-constellation to be offering some sort of initial service in 2024. The first priority is to fill in gaps in broadband coverage where ground infrastructure cannot reach, but later it will power services such as self-driving cars. The project will in some ways mirror America's Starlink and the UK-Indian OneWeb networks. Its scope has yet to be fully defined. A consortium of aerospace and telecoms companies is doing that right now. But EU Internal Market Commissioner Thierry Breton said he wanted to get going on the idea as soon as possible. "My objective is to go fast. And therefore it would be appropriate that the Commission puts forward this year a proposal to the European Parliament and the Council so we can move concretely," he told the 13th European Space Conference on Tuesday. "To be ready, we launched a few weeks ago a study on a secure space-based connectivity system. The selected consortium consisting of European satellite manufacturers, operators and service providers, telco operators and launch service providers will study the possible design and development of this project. "This will provide insights on the technical dimension, but also the governance structure, the financing, the missions, the exact scope. I expect their first feedback in April this year." OneWeb: Launching a low-Earth orbiting satellite constellation is an expensive business The secure communications system would be the next flagship space project to come out of the EU after the Galileo satellite-navigation constellation and the Copernicus programme with its Earth observing Sentinel spacecraft. EU officials have only spoken in the broadest terms about what they want to see from the new telecommunications project. They talk about a mix of low, medium and geostationary satellites that use advanced quantum encryption, are interlinked with optical connectors, and which piggyback sensors that might also be used to monitor aviation and shipping - just as examples. But, they argue, fast, secure, low-latency, space-borne connectivity will be the must-have capability to enable a raft of coming technologies, such as self-driving cars. Europe needs such a capability if it wants to stay globally competitive. The primary motivation in the first instance, however, would be to fill those last "not spots" in member states where ground infrastructure is incapable of delivering broadband services - thought to be at least five million households. Breton: A proposal to the European Parliament and the Council by the year's end Pressed on cost, EU officials told reporters on Tuesday that any estimate would have to wait on the industrial consortium's report in the spring. Nonetheless, experience says it would be in the billions of euros price bracket. And as to where the money will come from to make it all happen, the preferred option seems to be some sort of public-private partnership. The officials said the commission had some funds across its various directorates that it could call on, but that they expected industry, individual member states and the European Space Agency to invest in the system as well. Whatever the system looks like and however it is funded, speed of implementation will be paramount. The Starlink broadband mega-constellation, which is being built by US entrepreneur Elon Musk's SpaceX company, has already started offering "beta", or trial, broadband connections in Northern Europe; and OneWeb, owned by Indian conglomerate Bharti Global and the British government, hopes to have an initial offering for its Northern European customers later this year. "From the first idea about Galileo through to the first operational service in Europe, it has taken 20 years; we don't have 20 years [for this new project]," observed Jean-Marc Nasr, the head of Airbus Space Systems, which leads the feasibility consortium. "Speed is of the essence here. The idea of the European space infrastructure has been on the table since early 2020. We cannot have the first service in 2040. If we do that, we are dead. "We have to have the service operational at the end of this decade at the latest. And this requires all of us to work as a team to deliver the best competitive service and technical background to Europe." Artwork: It took two decades to get the Galileo system fully up and running There is talk of having the entire network in place by the end of the new EU multi-annual budget period, which is 2027. One issue of supreme importance for the implementation of the network will be securing the radio frequencies on which it will operate, as pointed out by Riadh Cammoun, vice president of public and regulatory affairs at the Franco-Italian satellite manufacturer Thales Alenia Space. "We need funding, we need a vision, we need leadership, but also we need frequency rights to sustain the launch of a European low-Earth orbit constellation," he told the conference. The commission said it had been working for some months already to try to secure those frequencies. The allocation and use of satellite frequencies is negotiated through the International Telecommunications Union (ITU).US 'foils' militant cryptocurrency fundraising 14 August 2020 Despite its territorial losses, IS used cryptocurrencies to raise funds The US government says it has thwarted attempts by militant groups to raise funds using digital currency, or cryptocurrency. The campaigns involved Hamas' military wing, the al-Qassam brigades, al-Qaeda and the Islamic State group (IS). US officials said about $2m (£1.5m) in cryptocurrency had been recovered. Hundreds of cryptocurrency accounts, four websites and four Facebook accounts were also seized, the justice department announced in a statement. "These actions represent the government's largest-ever seizure of cryptocurrency in the terrorism context," the department said. How did the groups receive payments? The al-Qassam Brigades used social media and its official websites to solicit bitcoin donations according to the justice department. It said government agents seized control of one website to redirect payments away from the group, which is the armed wing of the Palestinian militant Islamist organisation Hamas. Search warrants have been issued against people based in the US who donated. Al-Qaeda militants based in Syria, meanwhile, sought donations to purchase weapons via the messaging app Telegram. The justice department said IS had used a website and Facebook pages to sell fake Covid-19 personal protective equipment to collect funds. "Nothing was hidden," an unnamed US official told Reuters news agency, adding that the militant groups "thought they were protected" by encryption in the apps they used. Bitcoin explained: How do crypto-currencies work?Capcom hack: Up to 350,000 people's information stolen 16 November 2020 Capcom is best known for franchises such as Street Fighter Video-game-maker Capcom has warned a ransomware attack might have compromised gamers' personal information. Up to 350,000 people could be affected , it said, and some of its own financial information had been stolen. The Japanese developer is best known for franchises such as Resident Evil, Street Fighter, and Monster Hunter. A week-and-a-half earlier, it had said there was no indication customer information had been accessed. Digitally scrambled But in an update on Monday, Capcom confirmed its servers had been hit by an attack on 2 November. Ransomware is malicious software that typically threatens to block a victim's access to their own records unless a blackmail payment is made. In this case, the attackers digitally scrambled some of the data on Capcom's servers, making it impossible to view or amend, and destroyed some files outright. The Ragnar Locker hacker group had then demanded to be paid to undo the encryption involved, Capcom said. On Ragnor Locker's dark-net webpage, the hackers didn't just post Capcom's data but also an ominous message. In broken English they wrote the Japanese company didn't "make a right decision and save data from leakage". This - and the fact Capcom is openly talking about the hack - suggests the company chose not to pay the cyber-criminals' extortion demand. Many, including law enforcement, would actually see this as absolutely the right decision. For 18 months, police the world over have been desperately imploring ransomware victims not to pay hackers. The groups have made millions from companies, which often feel they have no other option but to fork out. But it seems Capcom has found a way through without yielding. No doubt the incident has affected the firm's reputation and some sensitive data is already surfacing online. But reading the disappointment in Ragnor Locker's statement is refreshing and rare. So far, Capcom has confirmed only nine people's personal information was definitely compromised, all current or former employees. But up to 350,000 customers, business partners, and other employees might also be affected, it said. Although, it could not be sure because its own logs had been "lost as a result of the attack". The information includes different combinations of names, addresses, birthdays, phone numbers and email addresses, depending on why the data was gathered. For example, some was from Japanese customer support and some from the American Capcom store or e-sports operation. 'Deepest apologies' "None of the at-risk data contains credit-card information," Capcom's statement said. "All online transactions... are handled by a third-party service provider. "And as such, Capcom does not maintain any such information internally." The company also said it was safe for gamers to continue to play its games online and to use its websites. Police have been notified, as have the Japanese and UK data-protection watchdogs. "Capcom would once again like to reiterate its deepest apologies for any complications or concerns caused by this incident," it said. "As a company that handles digital content, it is regarding this incident with the utmost seriousness."Wikileaks encryption use offers 'legal challenge' By Chris Vallance 19 August 2010 Wikileaks co-founder Julian Assange responds to a BBC question about why it provides encrypted files for download. Video courtesy of the journalists organisation Frontline Club. A novel use of encryption by whistle-blowing website Wikileaks could "challenge the legal system for years to come," according to an influential observer of the hacking community. Emmanuel Goldstein, editor of 2600 The Hacker Quarterly magazine, made his comments in reference to an encrypted file recently posted on the site. Some suspect the file - as yet unopened - contains further sensitive material. It has been reposted around the web and is available for anyone to download. So far, it has beeen downloaded 100,000 times. "If you release it in encrypted form, nobody really knows if you've released it or not - or even what the material is," Mr Goldstein told BBC News. "Then, if something happens to you, all it takes is the revelation of a simple spoken phrase known by a select group of people and everyone who has this mystery file now has all of the secrets." 'Uncrackable file' Wikileaks recently published 76,000 secret US military logs detailing military actions in Afghanistan; an act the US authorities described as highly irresponsible. The website now says it will release 15,000 further sensitive documents, once it has completed a review aimed at minimising the risk that the release could put people's lives in danger. The site came under criticism after it released the first tranche for endangering the lives of informants or others named in the documents. The release of the logs has led many to wonder what action the US might take against Wikileaks. Now it seems the site may be using encryption as insurance against legal and other threats to the information it holds. The insurance.aes256 file has been posted alongside the already published leaked war logs and can be downloaded by anyone. Some have speculated that the insurance file is another video From the file name, it is believed that it has been encrypted using the AES256 algorithm - described as "extremely strong" by Professor Whitfield Diffie, of the Information Security Group at Royal Holloway University, London. Prof Diffie believes that AES256, which he says has been "extensively studied" could prove too tough even for US intelligence agencies to break. While no-one knows what the insurance file contains, this has not prevented the contents becoming a matter of considerable speculation. Some suspect that the file contains a further leaked US military video, others that it is another tranche of US military logs - perhaps this time from Iraq. Or it could  just be an imaginative bluff. Even the name of the directory in which it is held - "straw-glass-and-bottle" - has prompted discussion and debate online. 'Historical value' Speaking at a recent event at London's Frontline Club, Wikileaks founder Julian Assange told attendees how the use of encryption could help overcome legal efforts to prevent publication. Mr Assange told the BBC that Wikileaks had often distributed encrypted material among its members in order to protect it. "We have over a long period of time distributed encrypted backups of material we have yet to release," he told the gathering. "All we have to do is release the password to that material and it is instantly available," he said. By publishing the encrypted documents publicly, Mr Assange said Wikileaks was protecting material of historical value. "That duty to history is something that weighs heavily with us. If you had the Stasi archive in your pocket, that is a very heavy pocket indeed," he said. "We take precautions to make sure that sort of material is not going to disappear from history regardless of the sort of threats to this organisation." Intelligence test But with the "insurance file" Wikileaks has taken the unusual step of making an encrypted backup - if that is indeed what it is - publicly available online. Emanuel Goldstein told the BBC: "Julian is smart. He always has a backup, which is the rule of thumb in this community." But he believes this goes further than just a need to preserve information. Wikileaks has come under criticism for its most recent leaks "It's a fascinating tactic and one which will challenge the legal system for years to come." In Mr Goldstein's view, any attempt now to seize or prevent publication of material held by Wikileaks will be self-defeating because thousands of copies will already have been distributed world wide. It is, he says, "a tactic of intelligence to ward off the inevitable clampdown." But Cindy Cohn, legal director of the Electronic Frontier Foundation is less convinced the file represents a challenge to the US government. "I don't see it as a challenge, as much as being open about what's going on," she told the BBC. In Ms Cohn's view the idea of circulating encrypted copies of information to keep it safe is well-established. The tactic, according to Ms Cohn, has been used in the past by human rights groups and other organisations. She points to projects like Freenet, which use encryption and wide distribution of data to resist censorship. "Wikileaks is doing the same basic thing in a more directly political context and using encryption to allow them to be more open about it on the front end." For Prof Diffie, the release of information in this way does open up interesting possibilities. "In a sense communications networks can be defined entirely by who has cryptographic keys, and I think a lot of networks will work that way in the future." That's a view which will not be good news for those trying to prevent groups sharing and publishing leaked material. "I think that the people who are trying to shut down Wikileaks are going to have to accept this as a fact of reality that cryptography allows you to do this kind of thing," Prof Diffie said.Zoom profits double as revenues skyrocket 31 August 2020 Popular videoconferencing app Zoom has seen its revenues skyrocket as second quarter profits more than doubled due to the coronavirus crisis. Revenues leaped 355% to $663.5m (£496.3m) for the three months ending 31 July, beating analysts' expectations of $500.5m. Profits soared to $186m, while customer growth rose 458%, compared with the same period in 2019. Video conferencing apps remain crucial due to the increase in remote working. Zoom's shares hit a record high on Monday, closing at $325.10, as the firm raised its annual revenue forecast by more than 30% to the range of $2.37bn-$2.39bn, from its previous projection of $1.78bn-$1.80bn. Key to Zoom's success was its ability to add paying customers - high-budget corporate clients - as opposed to those who use its services for free. The company said that its large customers - firms that generated more than $100,000 in revenue in the past year - doubled to 988 during the quarter. Zoom, together with rivals Cisco Webex and Microsoft Teams, have all seen a surge in usage of their video conferencing platforms since coronavirus lockdown measures were imposed by multiple countries in March. But Zoom's soaring popularity has also strained its infrastructure, with some outages last week as schools in many parts of the US resumed classes virtually. Its reputation also took a hit, as the new attention prompted hackers to hijack meetings and exposed a host of security flaws, revealing that the firm had sent user data to Facebook, had wrongly claimed the app had end-to-end encryption, and was allowing meeting hosts to track attendees. Zoom has also faced political scrutiny for its ties to China - where it has more than 700 staff, including most of its product development team - which have prompted warnings that it is not fit for government use.Hong Kong: Facebook, Google and Twitter among firms 'pausing' police help 6 July 2020 Some pro-democracy protesters have already been arrested under Hong Kong's new security law Facebook, WhatsApp, Twitter, Google and Telegram have all said they are "pausing" co-operation with requests for user information from the Hong Kong police. Several countries have criticised China for imposing a new security law, which they say threatens the territory's long-standing autonomy. The announcements are likely to put pressure on Apple to do likewise. While the others' services are blocked in mainland China, Apple's are not. However, Facebook, Google and Twitter do generate revenue from selling advertising to Chinese clients. Apple complied with the majority of requests it received from Hong Kong's government between January and June, before the new law came into effect, according to the firm's latest transparency report . Microsoft - which has also previously handed over data about its users to Hong Kong's authorities , and maintains a significant presence in mainland China - has not announced a change in policy either. The BBC has asked the two companies for comment. 'Right of privacy' Chat app Telegram - headquartered in London - was first to announce plans to halt co-operation. "We understand the right of privacy of our Hong Kong users," the firm told the Hong Kong Free Press on Sunday . "Accordingly, Telegram does not intend to process any data requests related to its Hong Kong users until an international consensus is reached in relation to the ongoing political changes in the city." Facebook followed saying it would stop considering the requests, "pending further assessment" of the human rights issues. No personal information about users in the region was held at, or disclosed from, its Hong Kong office, it added. "We believe freedom of expression is a fundamental human right and support the right of people to express themselves without fear for their safety or other repercussions," Facebook said. WhatsApp - which is owned by Facebook - said it "believes in the right for people to have a private conversation online" and "we remain committed to providing private and secure messaging services to our users in Hong Kong". Both platforms are blocked in mainland China but have benefited from Hong Kong's much broader access to the internet under its freedoms as a special administrative region. Google said it paused production on any new data requests when the new rules came into effect last week. "We'll continue to review the details of the new law," a spokeswoman told the BBC. Twitter said it acted likewise. What does Facebook give to police? WhatsApp has end-to-end encryption enabled by default - so it cannot read, or share with police officers, messages sent between two users. On Facebook Messenger, however, encryption is not the default option - it has to be manually switched on by users. Both platforms say they may disclose user data , in accordance with the law of the country in question. But WhatsApp adds successful requests for this information must meet "internationally recognised standards including human rights, due process, and the rule of law". What is encryption? In the US, both platforms require a subpoena to provide "basic subscriber records" such as the person's name, IP (internet protocol) address and email address. Extra information about the subscriber may require a court order. And a search warrant is needed for account contents: Hong Kong, formerly a British territory, was handed back to China in 1997, on the condition it would enjoy special freedoms for 50 years. The UK says China has now broken that agreement and is offering citizenship to as many as three million Hong Kong residents . Meanwhile, the United States - where most of the tech firms involved are headquartered - is considering whether to remove Hong Kong's favourable trading terms . The security laws introduce new crimes, including conspiring with foreigners to provoke "hatred" of the Chinese government or Hong Kong authorities, with penalties of up to life in prison . As soon as they came into effect, senior members of pro-democracy groups quit , fearing prosecution. And books written by pro-democracy activists have been removed from libraries .New police equipment to search mobile devices 14 January 2020 The "cyber kiosk" technology gives police the ability to override passwords on mobile phones Technology which allows the police to gather data from some mobile phones or tablets without using a password will be rolled out from Monday. Police Scotland has spent more than £500,000 buying 41 desktop-sized machines which override encryption on devices. The move has already been delayed amid concerns the technology may be unlawful . The force insisted the devices would significantly speed up investigations. Phones now form a major part of criminal investigations and forensic experts in Scotland examine about 15,000 a year. The police devices - known as "cyber kiosks" - will plug into phones or tablets and trained operators will then look for information relevant to an investigation. Officers can choose which types of data they want to access Only information held on devices, such as social media messages or call logs, can be accessed by Police Scotland and the force says all logs of the data captured are deleted after an examination. Deputy Chief Constable Malcolm Graham said: "Increases in the involvement of digital devices in investigations mean that demand on digital forensic examinations is higher than ever. "Current limitations, however, mean the devices of victims, witnesses and suspects can be taken for months at a time, even if it later transpires that there is no worthwhile evidence on them. "By quickly identifying devices which do and do not contain evidence, we can minimise the intrusion on people's lives and provide a better service to the public." The force has published a video to explain more about the new devices to the public. Officers have been trained in using the new equipment Seized units being examined by the police will include those handed over voluntarily by victims and witnesses, as well as those obtained under the authority of a judicial warrant, statutory power or following a suspect's arrest. 'Fell below the standard' The technology was first trialled in both Edinburgh and Stirling in 2016 using phones and SIM cards which had been legally seized by frontline officers. However, this came in for criticism, including from Holyrood's justice sub-committee , after it emerged members of the public whose phones were seized and searched were not made aware they were taking part in the trial. Police Scotland has since "acknowledged that the previous trials fell below the standard that would be expected of the service" but the force said concerns about the use of personal data have been the subject of "extensive consultation and scrutiny". The full rollout of the devices, which have seen 410 frontline officers trained to use them, is expected to be completed by May. A number of groups, including the Scottish Human Rights Commission and Privacy International, have argued that the legal basis for device examination has not been made sufficiently clear. Clare Connelly, of the Faculty of Advocates, has previously said she does not believe the technology complies with European law. Police Scotland said these concerns had been addressed. Separately, the Crown Office and independent senior counsel have said a legal basis exists for the use of cyber kiosks.Israeli man charged with spying for Iran 8 April 2020 The man is accused of trying to recruit people to launch terrorist attacks in Israel An Israeli man has been indicted on charges of spying for Iran and preparing terrorist attacks. Shin Bet, the country's internal security service, said the man had been in discussions with Iranian intelligence to recruit Israeli Arabs to carry out attacks. He has been charged with "infringement of the security of Israel". Israel and Iran have been arch-foes since the 1979 Iranian revolution, with Iran denying Israel's right to exist. The man who has been charged cannot be named for legal reasons. What are the allegations? Shin Bet said when the man was arrested last month, he was in possession of an encryption device and a computer hard drive. The agency said he had been paid to provide Iran with information on important sites in Israel. According to court files the accused was in contact with a Lebanese man who is a member of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine group. They allegedly met in two separate locations. He is also alleged to have met two people in Budapest who said they belonged to the Iranian security forces. In that meeting he provided the pair with information meant to help Iran "harm Israel" , Haaretz newspaper reports. "During these trips, he received funds, training, encryption tools and codes in order to be able to maintain contact with them in an encrypted way after he returned to Israel ," Shin Bet said, according to the Times Of Israel. Last year a former Israeli cabinet minister, Gonen Segev, was jailed after he admitted spying for Iran.'We have your porn collection': The rise of extortionware By Joe Tidy 30 March Cyber-security companies are warning about the rise of so-called 'extortionware' where hackers embarrass victims into paying a ransom. Experts say the trend towards ransoming sensitive private information could affect companies not just operationally but through reputation damage. It comes as hackers bragged after discovering an IT Director's secret porn collection. The targeted US firm has not publicly acknowledged that it was hacked. In its darknet blog post about the hack last month, the cyber-criminal gang named the IT director whose work computer allegedly contained the files. It also posted a screen grab of the computer's file library which included more than a dozen folders catalogued under the names of porn stars and porn websites. The infamous hacker group wrote: "Thanks God for [named IT Director]. While he was [masturbating] we downloaded several hundred gigabytes of private information about his company's customers. God bless his hairy palms, Amen!" The blog post has been deleted in the last couple of weeks, which experts say usually implies that the extortion attempt worked and the hackers have been paid to restore data, and not publish any more details. The company did not respond to requests for comment. The same hacker group is also currently trying to pressure another US utility company into paying a ransom, by posting an employee's username and password for a members-only porn website. 'The new norm' Another ransomware group which also has a darknet website shows the use of similar tactics. The relatively new gang has published private emails and pictures, and is calling directly for the mayor of a hacked municipality in the US to negotiate its ransom. In another case, hackers claim to have found an email trail showing evidence of insurance fraud at a Canadian agriculture company. Brett Callow, a threat analyst at cyber-security company Emsisoft, says the trend points to an evolution of ransomware hacking. "This is the new norm. Hackers are now actually searching the data for information that can be weaponised. If they find anything that is incriminating or embarrassing, they'll use it to leverage a larger pay-out. These incidents are no longer simply cyber-attacks about data, they are full-out extortion attempts." Another example of this was seen in December 2020, when the cosmetic surgery chain The Hospital Group was held to ransom with the threat of publication of 'before and after' images of patients. Ransomware is evolving Ransomware has evolved considerably since it first appeared decades ago. Criminals used to operate alone, or in small teams, targeting individual internet users at random by booby-trapping websites and emails. In the last few years, they've become more sophisticated, organised and ambitious. Technology explained: what is ransomware? Criminal gangs are estimated to be making tens of millions of dollars a year, by spending time and resources targeting and attacking large companies or public bodies for huge pay-outs, sometimes totalling millions of dollars. Brett Callow has been following ransomware tactics for years, and says he saw another shift in methods in late 2019. "It used to be the case that the data was just encrypted to disrupt a company, but then we started seeing it downloaded by the hackers themselves. "It meant they could charge victims even more because the threat of selling the data on to others was strong." Tough to defend against This latest trend of threatening to publicly damage an organisation or individual has particularly concerned experts because it is hard to defend against. Keeping good backups of company data helps businesses to recover from crippling ransomware attacks, but that is not enough when the hackers use extortionware tactics. Watch: The factory brought to its knees by ransomware hackers Cyber-security consultant Lisa Ventura said: "Employees should not be storing anything that could harm a firm reputationally on company servers. Training around this should be provided by organisations to all their staff. "It's a troubling shift in angle for the hackers because ransomware attacks are not only getting more frequent, they are also getting more sophisticated. "By identifying factors such as reputational damage, it offers far more leverage to extort money from victims." A lack of victim reporting and a culture of cover-up makes estimating the overall financial cost of ransomware difficult. Experts at Emsisoft estimate that ransomware incidents in 2020 cost as much as $170bn (£123bn) in ransom payments, downtime and disruption.Youngest person in UK convicted of terrorism offence can go free - Parole Board 18 January Now 20, he was jailed for life at Manchester Crown Court after admitting inciting terrorism overseas The youngest person convicted of a terrorism offence in the UK - who plotted to murder police in Australia on Anzac Day aged 14 - can be freed from jail, the Parole Board has ruled. The 20-year-old, from Blackburn, who can only be identified as RXG, sent encrypted messages inciting an Australian to launch attacks in 2015. He was jailed for life that year after admitting inciting terrorism overseas. But the Parole Board now says it is "satisfied" he is suitable for release. "After considering the circumstances of his offending, the progress made while in detention, and the evidence presented at the hearings, the panel was satisfied that RXG was suitable for release," the board said in a document detailing the decision. During his trial, the court heard how at the age of 14, the boy adopted an older persona in messages to alleged Australian jihadist Sevdet Besim, 18, instructing him to kill police officers at the remembrance parade. He sent thousands of messages suggesting Mr Besim get his "first taste of beheading" by attacking "a proper lonely person". Australian police were alerted to the plot after British officers discovered material on the teenager's phone. 'Considerable progress' A written summary of the Parole Board decision reveals that two hearings took place to consider the decision - hearings that included evidence from RXG himself. The summary records that "no-one at the hearing considered there to be a need for further time" in custody and that "all necessary work had been completed". RXG, who became eligible for parole in October, is said to have "undertaken extensive specialist work in detention to address his offending behaviour, his understanding of Islam and to develop his level of maturity". The Parole Board panel noted that "considerable progress that had been made", the summary records. License conditions for the 20-year-old a requirement to live at designated address, wearing an electronic tag, and limits on his contacts, movements and activities. Anzac Day is a national day of remembrance in Australia and New Zealand A ban on identifying RXG, made when he was sentenced, would normally have expired on his 18th birthday, but a number of media organisations made representations to the High Court, arguing that he should be named. But in 2019, the court ruled identifying him was likely to cause him "serious harm", and so granted him lifelong anonymity. The decision taken by the judge, Dame Victoria Sharp, has only been made in a small number of cases. In 2016, two brothers who had tortured other children in South Yorkshire were granted lifelong anonymity. Lifelong anonymity under new identities was also been granted after release to Mary Bell, the Newcastle child killer; Maxine Carr, who obstructed police investigating the 2002 Soham murders by her partner Ian Huntley; and Jon Venables and Robert Thompson, who murdered Liverpool toddler James Bulger.Spotify's personalised playlist for pets and other news BBC Click's Paul Carter looks at some of the best of the week's technology news including: See more at Click's website and @BBCClick 17 January 2020 BBC News TechnologyCoronavirus: Zoom under increased scrutiny as popularity soars 1 April 2020 The videoconferencing app Zoom has come under fresh high-level scrutiny as its popularity soars during the coronavirus pandemic. New York's attorney general has written to the firm raising concerns over its ability to cope with the rise in users. Zoom is now being used by millions of people for work and leisure, as lockdowns are imposed in many countries. But its data security and privacy measures have been questioned. The letter from the office of New York Attorney General Letitia James asked Zoom whether it had reviewed its security measures since its popularity surged. It also pointed out that in the past the app had been slow to address issues. In response to a request from the BBC for comment, a company spokesperson said: "Zoom takes its users' privacy, security, and trust extremely seriously. "During the Covid-19 pandemic, we are working around-the-clock to ensure that hospitals, universities, schools, and other businesses across the world can stay connected and operational. We appreciate the New York Attorney General's engagement on these issues and are happy to provide her with the requested information," it added. Users have flocked to Zoom as governments around the world ordered large parts of their populations to stay at home to slow the spread of the virus. It is now ranked as the number two and number one app in the UK and US, respectively. Zoom has had security flaws in the past, including a vulnerability which allowed an attacker to remove attendees from meetings, spoof messages from users and hijack shared screens. Another saw Mac users forced into calls without their knowledge. It also doesn't offer end-to-end encryption, according to online news publication The Intercept. This is encryption that should mean no-one other than participants can see a meeting. Zoom told it: "Currently, it is not possible to enable E2E encryption for Zoom video meetings." This means Zoom can access the video and audio of meetings, it reported. Because Zoom uses email domains to identify users who may be in the same company, the service will sometimes allow small internet service providers' customers to see each others' private data, reported Vice's tech website Motherboard. The company told Motherboard that it regularly updates a  list of private email providers to avoid this. Zoom has also been criticised for its "attendee tracking" feature , which, when enabled, lets the host of the Zoom call check if participants are clicking away from the main Zoom window during a call. More recently, the UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson last week tweeted a picture of himself chairing a Cabinet meeting using Zoom, leading to questions about how secure it was. This morning, I chaired the first ever video conference Cabinet meeting.  We must all do our bit to stop the spread of coronavirus, protect our NHS and save lives. #StayHomeSaveLives  https://t.co/Eew4i0Wr5q  pic.twitter.com/LkWYYnMXnq — Boris Johnson #StayHomeSaveLives (@BorisJohnson) March 24, 2020 View original tweet on Twitter The company has pushed back at those concerns, telling the BBC: "Globally, 2,000 institutions ranging from the world's largest financial services companies to leading telecommunications providers, government agencies, universities, healthcare and telemedicine practices have done exhaustive security reviews of our user, network and data centre layers confidently selecting Zoom for complete deployment." "We are in close communication with the UK Ministry of Defence and National Cyber Security Centre and are focused on providing the documentation they need."EncroChat: UK drugs boss captured as police crack coded messages 4 February James Duckworth ran his drugs empire on a coded messaging service called EncroChat A drugs boss who ran a multi-million pound enterprise in the UK has been jailed after detectives hacked into his encrypted messaging accounts. James Duckworth, 42, used the handle "atomicmantis" on messaging service EncroChat, Merseyside Police said. Officers found images of heroin and cocaine, cash including a £385,000 stash in his home, and a ledger detailing £5m in payments. Duckworth, of Kirkby, was sentenced to 16 years and six months. He pleaded guilty to conspiracy to supply cocaine and heroin and conceal and acquire criminal property. Officers found cash, including a £385,000 stash, in his home Liverpool Crown Court heard Duckworth was arrested in Kirkby on 3 November after detectives found evidence of a plan to import drugs from Costa Rica on his encrypted EncroChat phone. During a search of his home detectives seized designer watches, an anti-bugging device and a cash counting machine. Police said Duckworth, who gave the court a new address of Hamlett Crescent in St Helens, was the first person in Merseyside to be sentenced as part of a Europe-wide effort to "crack" the EncroChat service. Detectives found mobile phone images of large amounts of Class A drugs There were 800 arrests across the continent last year after messages were intercepted and decoded by law enforcement officers. The National Crime Agency said the communications system - which has now been taken down - was used by criminals to trade weapons as well as drugs. Det Insp Lee Wilkinson said: "Duckworth, and many others like him, thought that by using encrypted devices they could evade justice, "He is the first but certainly won't be the last in Merseyside to face a significant period of time in jail." Why not follow BBC North West on Facebook , Twitter and Instagram ? You can also send story ideas to northwest.newsonline@bbc.co.ukZoom tackles hackers with new security measures 6 May 2020 Zoom is implementing new security measures to prevent people entering meetings Zoom is implementing new security measures as it battles to prevent hackers from "zoombombing" video calls. Trolls have been disrupting video conferences with offensive content, including racist and homophobic imagery. Those with free Zoom accounts must use a password for all meetings. It follows reports that a sexual assault awareness meeting on the platform was targeted by a hacker who posted a video depicting child abuse . Zoom has been attempting to toughen up its security measures ever since it vowed to fix its "biggest trust, safety and privacy" issues in April . Its latest move, aimed at free users of its platform, will be implemented on 9 May. A new level of encryption will also be introduced across the platform from 30 May, which it says will "provide increased protection for meeting data and resistance against tampering". Jo O'Reilly, deputy editor at ProPrivacy, has suggested that Zoom still has some way to go if it is to stop large-scale companies such as Google from banning the use of the platform. "This update may be enough to get consumers back on board," she told the BBC. "However, if they want to turn the tide of big companies and government moving away from using Zoom, it is going to take more than superficial fixes such as enforced passwords. "The bigger issues such as the of the lack of end-to-end encryption, making it unsuitable for commercially or politically sensitive meetings, are much trickier to solve"," added Ms O'Reilly. Perpetrators of video-call hijackings can often be hard to identify and track down, due to the quick nature of the attacks. Such an attack occurred on 30 April during a video conference to mark the end of Sexual Assault Awareness Month. According to The Mercury News , a hacker posted a video depicting child abuse, and forced the meeting to end. The community-organised event in San Francisco had been intended to allow victims of sexual assault to share their stories. A spokesman for the District Attorney said they were aware of the matter and were looking into it. “We are horrified about what occurred during one of our partner’s town hall events promoting Sexual Assault Awareness Month," he said. "The intrusion further emphasises the importance of programs that combat and prevent sexual violence, including the prosecution of those who exploit children." A spokesman for Zoom added that the platform was looking into the incident to "ensure appropriate action is taken".Google uses AI to enhance video call audio 2 April 2020 Google is hoping to end poor quality audio during video calls. Google is hoping to end low quality video calls by deploying artificial intelligence to "fill in" audio gaps caused by bad connections. WaveNetEQ works by using a library of speech data to realistically continue short segments of conversations. The AI is trained to produce mostly syllable sounds, and can fill gaps of up to 120 milliseconds. It comes as the use of video calls has become increasingly important during the corornavirus crisis. When making a call over the internet, data is split into small chunks called packets. A poor connection can mean these packets reach the other party in the wrong order and at the wrong time, or cause them to be lost entirely. This can result in a significant decline in call quality. Google says 99% of calls made using its Duo app experience some form of audio-related issue. Of these calls, 20% lose more than 3% of their total audio, while 10% lose almost a tenth. WaveNetHQ works by specifically creating speech data to fill the gaps made by drops in audio. Data-sharing The AI has been trained using the voices of 100 individuals in 48 languages to enable it to learn the general characteristics of a human voice, regardless of dialect. Douglas Crawford, cyber security researcher at ProPrivacy, says that Duo's end-to-end encryption should help alleviate any concerns about data-sharing. "As calls on the platform are secured using end-to-end encryption, outsourcing AI-processing of missing packets in order to reduce audio jitters was simply not an option for developers," he told the BBC. "Google solved this by performing all the processing on your device so that no data is ever transmitted to a third party. The system is currently available on Google's Pixel 4 smartphone - the company says it plans to expand to more Android devices later this year. In 2018, Google divided critics when it unveiled artificial intelligence software that books appointments over the phone on behalf of users by making realistic voice-based calls . However, the feature is currently only available in the US.Haulier ran Europe-wide drug ring from living room By Tom Symonds 22 December 2020 Posh cars on the driveway of his suburban house gave clues to Maher's lifestyle A UK-based haulier shipped drugs for gangs across Europe from his Warrington living room in lockdown. Thomas Maher, originally from Ireland, has been sentenced at Liverpool Crown Court to more than 14 years in jail after pleading guilty to drugs and money-laundering charges. He made thousands of pounds a week, using an encrypted Encrochat phone to fix the movement of drugs and money. He is the first major crime boss jailed using messages obtained when French police cracked the Encrochat network. The phones were considered mandatory for high-end organised crime, and more than a thousand suspects have been arrested on the strength of the evidence their messages contain. Maher, 39, used the Encrochat handles "Satirical" and "Snacker" as he did deals with organised crime networks in the UK, Ireland, Denmark, the Netherlands, Spain, Turkey and Bulgaria. The National Crime Agency says he was "hugely influential" among Europe's drug cartels. Sentencing him, Judge Aubrey QC said Maher was "a high-ranking facilitator... a go-between for criminal networks needing to transport their drugs between Holland and Ireland". Passing a sentence of 14 years and eight months, the judge told Maher: "You were an extremely important cog in the wheel of a sophisticated network." Maher would arrange for lorries to move massive loads of drugs hidden alongside legitimate cargoes such as fruit or wine in one direction and then to bring cash in the other direction. The NCA kept Maher under surveillance after French police passed on details of his activities Police found out about his operation after he was arrested in connection with the deaths of 39 Vietnamese migrants while they were being transported to the UK in October 2019. He had previously owned the trailer in which they were found. The NCA put him under surveillance in an attempt to identify the scale of his criminal activities. However, the cracking of the Encrochat network by French intelligence and the Gendarmerie provided the National Crime Agency with thousands of his encrypted messages. They were able to watch, almost in real time, as he did deals with crime bosses around Europe. Martin Clark, from the NCA, said he posed as an "honest haulier", but was in fact "very much a professional facilitator and he's done it all remotely sitting in his living room". "He's never personally been anywhere near any of it." In fact, the NCA said he had been scrupulous about social distancing during the pandemic while communicating via Encrochat with dozens of criminals. The evidence the agency has uncovered shines a new light on the way in which a smuggling network operates. Maher would be contacted by clients wanting to move hundreds of kilos of drugs. The messages were written in criminal slang. He would discuss deals involving shipments of "tops" (top shelf drugs such as cocaine), or "Colo" (the purest form from Colombia). Heroin, which he deemed a more downmarket drug, was known as "bottoms". Shipments might come from "The Flat" (The Netherlands) and the lorry returned with "paper" (cash). Decoding the criminals Officers working on Encrochat cases are having to develop skills in understanding the slang suspects are using in their messages.  In this message Thomas Maher (Satirical) is telling an alleged co-conspirator that they're not doing too badly despite the lockdown. Helpfully for police he sets out the network of drug transportation routes he is currently operating: "Taxi ways are working out OK at the minute with this fella from flat to ours and Belgium to ours am other that's two - and plus a driver with [redacted] for Poly's sun to flat and we still have [redacted] turk to flat and and his men [redacted] to here where I am. Once we get this travel ban lifted m8 we be on the pigs bk that alone is a lot of taxi plus we have the receiver here from Asia so m8 we have a lot more than others... that's why I'm not stressing yet The police translation reads: "Our HGV drug courier business is working out OK at the moment. Someone is bringing shipments from Holland and Belgium to the UK. There's a driver for ecstasy from Spain to Holland, and we still have Turkey to Holland, and [redacted] is bringing shipments to the UK. Once the travel ban is lifted we will be doing rather well. That alone is a lot of shipments plus we have someone bringing drugs in from Asia.  So, we have a lot more than other gangs... that's why I'm not stressing yet. However, like many users of the Encrochat network, Maher believed his messages could not be read, so he didn't bother trying to communicate in code. Crucial evidence was obtained from pictures on his phone. His drivers would photograph the shipments to prove they had been picked up. They would sometimes use a "token" during the handover. This involved showing a particular Euro bank note, with digits previously agreed as evidence of identity. When Maher was moving drugs he would earn around £3,500 each time. For money, transported for laundering in consignments of 300,000 euros at a time, he would "skim" 1% of the total as his payment Luxury watches He was "always showing £50 notes in the pub", Martin Clark said, and people were suspicious that he was a criminal. Maher lived in a "fairly modest" Cheshire home, but police surveillance spotted luxury cars including a Range Rover, Porsche Cayenne, Mercedes GLS and Corvette parked on the drive. When they raided his house they found evidence he had spent hundreds of thousands of pounds on Rolex and Hublot watches. He had taken holidays in Dubai, Mexico and New York where he liked to buy pricey modern art, including a map of the world created from bullets.WhatsApp to switch off messages for all who reject new terms By Zoe Kleinman 22 February WhatsApp users who do not accept its updated terms and conditions by the 15 May deadline will be unable to receive or send messages until they do so. Their account will be listed as "inactive". And inactive accounts can be deleted after 120 days. Calls and notifications will still function for "a short while" but, TechCrunch reported, probably only a "few weeks" . WhatsApp announced the update in January. There was a backlash among many users who thought it meant the company was planning to change the amount of data it shared with its parent company, Facebook. It later clarified this was not the case - the update is actually aimed at enabling payments to be made to businesses. Notifying users WhatsApp already shares some information with Facebook, such as the user's IP address (a sequence of numbers attached to every device which connects to the internet, it can also be used to pin down its location) and purchases made via the platform. But this is not the case in Europe and the UK, where different privacy laws exist. Following the initial announcement, platforms such as Telegram and Signal saw a huge surge in demand as WhatsApp users sought alternative encrypted-messaging services. WhatsApp delayed the initial rollout and has now changed the way it is notifying users of the changes.'Zoombombing' targeted with new version of app 23 April 2020 Zoom has said it will release an improved version of its hugely popular video conferencing app this week. It comes after issues with the company's data security and privacy measures have come under intense scrutiny. The firm said Zoom 5.0 will include upgraded encryption features to help protect data and fend off so-called "Zoombombing". The platform is now being used by hundreds of millions of people for work and leisure, as lockdowns are imposed around the world. "We will earn our customers’ trust and deliver them happiness with our unwavering focus on providing the most secure platform,” Zoom's chief executive Eric Yuan said in a statement. Zoom has been criticised for a range of privacy issues, including sending users' device data to Facebook, wrongly claiming the app had end-to-end encryption, and allowing meeting hosts to track attendees. One of the app’s most high-profile issues has been “Zoombombing” incidents, where uninvited guests crash meetings. This has led to several companies, schools and governments stopping the use of the platform. In the UK there has been debate about whether the government should be using Zoom for cabinet meetings, after Prime Minister Boris Johnson tweeted a picture which included the ID number of the latest meeting. It has also been reported that Elon Musk has banned the use of Zoom for SpaceX meetings over security concerns. Nasa, which is one of Space X's biggest customers, also prevents employees from using it. Meanwhile, Singapore suspended the use of video-conferencing tool Zoom by its teachers, after a "very serious incident" during a home-based lesson. Singapore's Ministry of Education has since announced that teaching over Zoom was now resuming, with enhanced security measures. Earlier this month Zoom said it would pause the development of any new features to concentrate on safety and privacy issues. Mr Yuan apologised for "falling short" on security issues and promised to address concerns, saying that the use of Zoom had soared in ways he could never have foreseen prior to the coronavirus pandemic. That came as daily user numbers have soared to 300 million from 10 million in less than three months. At the same time New York's attorney general has written to the firm raising concerns over its ability to cope with the rise in users. The letter from the office of New York Attorney General Letitia James asked Zoom whether it had reviewed its security measures since its popularity surged. It also pointed out that in the past the app had been slow to address issues. In response to a request from the BBC for comment, a company spokesperson said: "Zoom takes its users' privacy, security, and trust extremely seriously."Pensacola attack: Apple not helping unlock Saudi gunman's phone - Barr US Attorney General William Barr has accused Apple of providing no “substantive assistance” in unlocking two phones used by a cadet who carried out a mass shooting at a US air base last month. Three sailors were killed and eight wounded in the 6 December attack. Apple has reportedly refused to unlock the phones, saying it would undermine their own encryption software. Twenty-one members of the Saudi military are being expelled from the US after they were found to have had jihadist material and indecent images of children in their possession. None are accused of aiding the killer. 13 January 2020 BBC News US & CanadaTrump launches fresh attack on Apple over privacy 15 January 2020 Apple chief executive Tim Cook and Donald Trump don't see eye to eye over access to data US President Donald Trump has launched a fresh attack on Apple. He tweeted that the company was refusing to unlock iPhones "used by killers, drug dealers and other violent criminal elements". On Monday US Attorney General William Barr accused Apple of not being helpful in an inquiry into a shooting that is being treated as a terrorist act. It is the latest in a series of clashes between the White House and technology giants over access to data. Mr Trump accused Apple of refusing to co-operate with investigators despite his administration helping the company on trade and other issues. We are helping Apple all of the time on TRADE and so many other issues, and yet they refuse to unlock phones used by killers, drug dealers  and other violent criminal elements. They will have to step up to the plate and help our great Country, NOW! MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 14, 2020 View original tweet on Twitter The president's comments came a day after Mr Barr said Apple had failed to provide "substantive assistance" to unlock two iPhones in an investigation into a fatal shooting at a naval base in Pensacola, Florida. Three US sailors were killed when a Saudi trainee at the base opened fire on 6 December. Apple said it rejected the claim that it had failed to help officials in their investigation. "Our responses to their many requests since the attack have been timely, thorough and are ongoing," it said in a statement. This is not the first time Apple has clashed with the US justice department. After a mass shooting in San Bernardino, California in 2015, in which 14 people were killed and 22 others were seriously injured , Apple refused to help gain access to the gunman's iPhone . The US government ended up paying another company a reported $1m (£770,000) to develop software to get around the device's encryption. The disputes highlight the ongoing disagreement between the technology industry and law enforcement agencies around the world. On one side encryption plays a crucial role in protecting people's privacy, on the other it can cause major issues for criminal investigators.'Cocaine call centres' set up across Europe, drugs agency says 6 June 2019 Authorities are seizing and destroying record quantities of cocaine Enterprising criminals have set up "cocaine call centres" across Europe to provide fast and flexible delivery services, the EU drugs agency says. Distributors are utilising encryption services on their smartphones in an "Uberisation" of the trade, it adds. The findings appear in an annual report by the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drugs Addiction (EMCDDA). It also warns that European authorities are now seizing record quantities of increasingly pure cocaine. The latest data cited by EMCDDA suggests that the purity of the drug distributed across the continent is at its highest in a decade. Issues such as the use of large shipping containers to transport cocaine are proving a major challenge , according to the Lisbon-based agency. On the use of digital technologies, it reports that "innovative distribution methods" are in use by "entrepreneurs" in the trade. "There is evidence that the use of social media, dark net marketplaces and encryption techniques are playing an increasing role in enabling smaller groups and individuals to engage in drug dealing," the agency says, adding that "sellers compete by offering additional services beyond the product itself". The phrase that leaps out of this report is "Uberisation". It captures perfectly the way in which cocaine gangs have adapted to - and taken advantage of - smartphones, messaging apps and satellite navigation, just as tech-savvy companies do in other, legitimate, sectors. The problem of "Uberisation" for law enforcement is that it makes drug networks more nimble, and therefore harder to disrupt, particularly if supplies are ordered and dispatched via a call centre in another country. The underlying issue, however, is the surge in the availability of cocaine due to a huge increase in global cultivation of the coca leaf plant.  It's at its highest level for almost 20 years - creating a lucrative market in which drug traffickers and dealers have to find innovative ways to stay ahead of their competitors. European Commissioner for Home Affairs, Dimitris Avramopoulos, said the report showed the "complex nature of Europe's drug phenomenon". "Drugs remain a constantly evolving, multi-faceted threat to our societies," he said, adding: "We need a more co-ordinated approach, but we also need to look at the role of digitalisation in the drug market." Dark net drug sales on the rise According to EMCDDA, cocaine is "the most commonly used illicit stimulant drug in the EU", with about 2.6 million people aged between 15 and 34 reportedly having used it in the last year. It also found that production of synthetic drugs was growing and diversifying with methamphetamine posing the "greatest challenge". Separately, it warned that legal recreational cannabis markets in some countries outside the EU were leading to "innovative" new products that presented difficulties for detection and control when entering the continent.