The man teaching 300 million people a new language By Will Smale 27 January 2020 Luis von Ahn was born and raised in Guatemala The BBC's weekly The Boss series profiles different business leaders from around the world. This week we speak to Luis von Ahn, co-founder and chief executive of language learning app Duolingo. If anyone ever doubts the positive impact of immigration tell them about Luis von Ahn. A 41-year-old from the Central American nation of Guatemala, he went to the US in 1996, aged 18, to do a maths degree at Duke University in North Carolina. After that he studied computer science at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh. Luis went on to become a computer science professor, specialising in "human-based computation", which in very simple terms is how humans and computers can best work together to solve complicated tasks. For his pioneering work in that field he was awarded the US's prestigious MacArthur Fellows Program award. This is colloquially known as the "genius grant", because you are said to have to be one to get it. Luis first got interested in computers at the age of eight Luis then became a multimillionaire by his early 30s, after selling not one but two businesses to Google. The technology he sold to the search engine giant is still used by all of us, as will be explained later. Fast forward to today, and Luis is the co-founder and boss of Pittsburgh-based Duolingo, the world's most popular language-learning app, which has more than 300 million users around the globe. Soft-spoken and bespectacled, Luis modestly says that the much of his success is down to the fact that he was lucky enough to be taught English as a child. A native Spanish speaker, he says that his doctor mother insisted that he learned English from a very young age. His middle class family then had enough money to send him to a private English language school in the capital Guatemala City. Luis says this obviously put him in a very privileged position compared to most Guatemalans - almost half of the country's population live in poverty, according to the World Bank, with 9% in extreme poverty. Many have limited access to education. Duolingo users have to answer a series of questions The inspiration behind Duolingo was to create a language learning app that was free for people to use - be it in Guatemala, or around the world - so that they could gain the economic advantages that often come with being at least partially bilingual. "I wanted to do something that would give equal access to education to everyone," says Luis. "And then I focused on languages because growing up in Guatemala I saw that everyone wants to learn English. "And knowledge of English in a non-English speaking country can usually mean that your income potential is doubled. I mean, you literally make twice as much money if you know English. So that's kind of where the idea came from to have a free way to learn languages, and that was Duolingo." Luis and co-founder Severin Hacker started work on the app in 2009. At the time Luis was a professor at Carnegie Mellon, and Severin was one of his students. Bringing on board linguistics and language retention experts, Duolingo launched in 2012, initially offering a handful of languages, including English, French and Spanish. "When we launched I was lucky enough to be able to give a TED Talk that was watched by two million people, so that gave Duolingo a good initial base of users," says Luis. "But from then until 2019 our growth was solely due to positive word of mouth, we didn't do any advertising or marketing at all." The company's headquarters is in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Today Duolingo offers more than 100 courses across 28 different languages. While the most popular languages are English, Spanish and French, you can study everything from Arabic to Ukrainian. Duolingo also has a special focus on promoting minority languages, with courses in Welsh, Navajo, Gaelic and Hawaiian. Dr Sylvia Warnecke, a senior lecturer in languages at The Open University in Scotland, says that she was very pleased to see Duolingo work with leading Gaelic speakers to launch that course last year. "Duolingo gets criticism from some that you cannot learn enough to be come proficient in a language... but it is a wonderful way of getting people started," she says. "For lots of people learning a language is a slog, and they don't have the time to sign to sign up for formal classes on a weekly basis. Apps like Duolingo are a valuable alternative." Duolingo now has annual revenues of $90m (£69m). Some $15m of this comes from the adverts included on the free, standard app, while $75m is from the 2% of users who pay for the advertisement-free premium version. Luis was inspired by the idea of being able to help people in Guatemala and other countries learn English or another second language for free "If you use Duolingo heavily and you are relatively wealthy then you should pay us, that is my sense," says Luis. "But if you are in a developing country and don't have very much money, then the free version is for you. That's how I feel about it." Now with 200 employees, Luis hopes that Duolingo can float on the stock market in 2021. He is said to have a substantial, but minority stake in the business, which already has some outside investors. More The Boss features: Going back in time, the two businesses Luis sold to Google were the ESP Game and Recaptcha. ESP, which stands for Extra Sensory Perception, was an online game in which two people, who could not communicate with each other, had to pick words to describe a photograph. When they used the same word they each got a point, and were presented with another photo. Since 2006 Google has used this technology to improve its image search software. Former US President Barack Obama is a fan of Luis and his company Meanwhile, Recaptcha is the now widely used system whereby a Google-linked website asks you to type out words that are written in squiggly handwriting as a means of proving that you are not a so-called "bot" or malicious software. An estimated 200 million people have to do this every day, and Luis invented it. Recaptcha, which was solely owned by Luis, was bought by Google in 2009 for an undisclosed eight-figure sum. What is little known is that the words you have to write out are not chosen at random. Instead they are words from old physical books that Google is digitising, and its software is struggling to decipher. So every time you do one of those security tests you are an unpaid Google worker. If, say, 10,000 people all agree on a certain spelling, then Google accepts that as correct. Back at Duolingo, Luis says he is proud to be helping so many people learn a new language. "We are giving free language education to everyone," he says.Twitter bot corrects Caitlyn Jenner references from 'he' to 'she' 2 June 2015 People calling Caitlyn Jenner "he" are being "politely corrected" by a bot on Twitter. The automated service is called @she_not_he and targets people who have used the male pronoun in tweets talking about the reality TV star. Some of those who are using "he" are making genuine mistakes, while others are more malicious. The bot itself has made some errors, automatically sending a correction, even when the original tweet is right. She Not He tweeted: ".@LetItGo_space *Alarm sounds* It's she, not he." "I am a bot politely correcting Twitter users who misgender Caitlyn Jenner in their tweets. I might make mistakes reading your tweet!! I'm only human. (Not)," reads the bot's biography. It seems to be when the name Jenner is mentioned along with the word "he", meaning that tweets sent about Caitlyn's daughters Kylie and Kendall are also getting targeted. She Not He tweeted: ".@glibthwack ~ROBOT CLANKING NOISE~ It's she, not he." So far more than 880 people have been corrected. After gaining more than a million followers in four hours, Caitlyn broke a new Twitter record, Guinness World Records has confirmed. Caitlyn launched her Twitter account at the same time as a Vanity Fair magazine cover was released , showing her as a transgender woman and revealing the name she will now be using. She tweeted: "Another Jenner world record, and at 65? Who'da thought! Humbled & honored to have reached 1M followers in 4 hrs. Thank you for your support." She'd previously been known as Bruce Jenner. The cover photograph, exclusively shot by Annie Leibovitz, is part of a wider special where Jenner talks about her gender transition and how her family's reacted. Kim Kardashian tweeted: "Caitlyn Jenner for Vanity Fair Annie Leibovitz! How beautiful! Be happy, be proud, live life YOUR way!" Her step-daughters, best known for their reality TV show Keeping Up with the Kardashians, have shared their support for Jenner on social media. If you want help or advice on gender dysphoria, being transgender or transitioning, visit BBC Advice . Follow @BBCNewsbeat on Twitter, BBCNewsbeat on Instagram, Radio1Newsbeat on YouTube and you can now follow BBC_Newsbeat on SnapchatTED 2019: Twitter boss offers to demote likes and follows By Jane Wakefield 16 April 2019 Jack Dorsey answered questions at TED on problems with his platform Twitter co-founder Jack Dorsey has again admitted there is much work to do to improve Twitter and cut down on the amount of abuse and misinformation on the platform. He said the firm might demote likes and follows, adding that in hindsight he would not have designed the platform to highlight these. He said that Twitter currently incentivised people "to post outrage". Instead he said it should invite people to unite around topics and communities. "It may be best if it becomes an interest-based network," he told TED curators Chris Anderson and Whitney Pennington Rodgers. Rather than focus on following individual accounts, users could be encouraged to follow hashtags, trends and communities. Doing so would require a systematic change that represented a "huge shift" for Twitter. On the topic of abuse, he admitted that it was happening "at scale". Chris Anderson asked Mr Dorsey why he seemed to lack urgency in dealing with the problems on Twitter "We've seen harassment, manipulation, misinformation which are dynamics we did not expect 13 years ago when we founded the company," he told TED curator Chris Anderson. "What worries me is how we address them in a systematic way." He has previously discussed the role played by likes and follows, which were designed to be prominent. "One of the choices we made was to make the number of people that follow you big and bold. If I started Twitter now I would not emphasise follows and I would not create likes. "We have to look at how we display follows and likes," he added. Ms Pennington Rodgers asked him why, according to Amnesty, women of colour on average received abuse in one of 10 tweets they posted. "It's a pretty terrible situation," Mr Dorsey admitted. "The dynamics of the system makes it super-easy to harass others." He said that Twitter was increasingly using machine-learning to spot abuse and claimed that 38% of abusive tweets were now identified by algorithms and then highlighted to humans, who decide whether to remove them from the platform. He also said that the firm was working on making it easier to find its policies on abuse and was simplifying them. Asked if he would show urgency in dealing with the issues, he replied simply: "Yes." Ask Jack The TED audience were invited to contribute to the conversation via the hashtag #askJackatTED, which received more than 1,000 questions within 10 minutes of the talk starting. One of the questions came from journalist Carole Cadwalladr who spoke at TED on Monday and called on the tech firms, including Twitter, to directly address the issue of misinformation being shared widely on their platforms. But in her question to Mr Dorsey, she turned her attention to abuse she has received on Twitter. "I'd like to know why a video that showed me being beaten up and threatened with a gun to soundtrack of Russian anthem stayed up for 72 hours despite 1000s of complaints?" she wrote. Mr Dorsey did not address that question and neither did he answer another one about how to deal with the huge number of malicious bots posting misinformation. He was also shown a graph created by Zignal Labs which showed the number of human tweets versus tweets from suspected bots talking about topics in the recent election campaign in Israel. Bots seemed to dominate when it came to tweets about contender Benny Gantz, who was narrowly defeated by Benjamin Netanyahu. Mr Dorsey was asked about this but did not answer. Instead he said that the company was in the middle of measuring the "conversational health" of the platform, using a number of metrics, including how toxic conversations were and how much people are exposed to a variety of opinions. "We have to create a healthy contribution to the network and a healthy conversation. On Twitter right now you don't necessarily walk away feeling you learned something."Twitter bot purge prompts backlash 21 February 2018 Twitter has been under pressure to block bot accounts used to spread disinformation The hashtag #TwitterLockout has trended after an apparent purge of suspected malicious bots on the social network. Dozens of users report having had their accounts suspended until they provided a telephone number which they then had to verify, to prove they were real. Some members have raised concerns about their amount of lost followers, and claimed discrimination against right-wing political beliefs. Others have in turn mocked allegations of bias. "Twitter's tools are apolitical, and we enforce our rules without political bias," the social network has said in response. "Every day we proactively look for suspicious account behaviours that indicate inorganic or automated activity, violations of our policies around having multiple accounts, or abuse. "And every day we take action on any accounts we find that violate our terms of service, including by asking account owners to confirm a phone number so we can confirm a human is behind it. "This is part of our ongoing, comprehensive efforts to make Twitter safer and healthier for everyone." The firm allows automated software to be used to send tweets under some circumstances, but forbids the posted content from being misleading. It has also issued new guidance about the use of automation and having multiple accounts. The action follows an indictment announced last week by special counsel Robert Mueller against 13 Russian nationals and three Russian firms. They are alleged to have used fake accounts on Twitter and other social media platforms to conduct "information warfare against the United States". Twitter and Facebook had faced criticism from US lawmakers earlier in the year for not having taken the problem seriously enough. 'Junk news' One researcher who has studied digital disinformation campaigns said a Twitter crackdown should come as no surprise. "This is a company that's under a lot of heat to clean up its act in terms of how its platform has been exploited to spread misinformation and junk news," said Samantha Bradshaw from the University of Oxford's Computational Propaganda Project. "It now needs to rebuild trust with users and legislators to show it is trying to take action against these threats against democracy." The effort has nonetheless infuriated some Twitter members, including several conservative radio show hosts. #twitterlockout is real -- but, we can use it to our advantage.  Use the hashtag.. find good, solid people to follow.  It's that simple.  This was a mistake by twitter.. big time. Not cool.. but, will back fire! — Joe Pags Pagliarulo (@JoeTalkShow) February 21, 2018 View original tweet on Twitter I was locked out last night and had to verify my phone number...again. When I was finally able to log in again, over 1000 followers mysteriously gone. #TwitterLockout  https://t.co/E3C9rfA20g — Gina (@OwnYourWallet) February 21, 2018 View original tweet on Twitter I lost over 200 followers last night after twitter forced me to give a phone number and prove I was not a “bot”. Liberals may laugh but what you allow to happen to conservatives will come for you as well. #twitterlockout  #twitterlockout conservatives #wisewolf2  pic.twitter.com/uZPNjhv09N — Annie Get Your Gun❤️💃🏻👠 (@Greeneyz0080) February 21, 2018 View original tweet on Twitter That twitter attack on conservatives hit me too last night. I was deemed “ineligible” to use twitter ads and had followers purged. @twitter should ashamed, we have to organize a response. #TwitterLockOut  pic.twitter.com/1Df4jY3Vv6 — Dan Bongino (@dbongino) February 21, 2018 View original tweet on Twitter Others, however, think it ridiculous to protest against Twitter trying to prevent further misuse of its service. Only deplorables would consider having to verify your account with a phone number as being censorship. Don't be a bot or troll and it's not a problem. 🙄😂 #TwitterLockOut — 🌊Angelia🌊 (@an_e_la) February 21, 2018 View original tweet on Twitter Wait, what? Twitter locked you out and you have to verify your phone number? Oh the horror of it all! Hey, conspiracy theorist, just verify your damn number and move on with your life.....bunch of snowflakes.  #TwitterLockOut — Brad (@Relax_For_Real) February 21, 2018 View original tweet on Twitter If I'm following #TwitterLockout correctly, people think their rights to free speech are being infringed by not allowing accounts that aren't real people to follow them? — Anthony De Rosa 🗽 (@Anthony) February 21, 2018 View original tweet on Twitter It’s ridiculous I have to say this but here goes: Bots aren’t people. Their voices weren’t silenced. Conservatives aren’t being censored. There is no conspiracy. The country is a bit safer today. All of us, Dems and Repubs alike. #TwitterLockOut — Bryce Tache (@brycetache) February 21, 2018 View original tweet on Twitter There have also been pleas for Twitter to provide more detail about its efforts. Hello @jack a lot of people are asking about #TwitterLockOut could the company please provide the criteria for erasing followers while folks sleep.  I know there is a lot of pressure to be more responsible in curbing certain actions but that shouldn't extend to muting opinions — Charles V Payne (@cvpayne) February 21, 2018 View original tweet on Twitter Ms Bradshaw suggested that any appearance of Twitter's partisanship might be better explained by the different news sources that left and right-wingers prefer. "Our work indicates a lot of the more conservative Americans were consuming more junk news," she explained. "Filter bubbles and echo chambers are more dominant on the right compared to on the left. "So, I don't necessarily think it's an attack on the right, it's just a reflection about the different ways different kinds of people consume information."Tech Tent: The battle with the bots Rory Cellan-Jones @BBCRoryCJ 23 February 2018 Is the battle against online propaganda already being lost as AI puts powerful new weapons in the hands of the fake news merchants? Tech Tent reports this week on the desperate efforts by the social media giants to root out the armies of bots trying to pollute online debate. Following the mass shooting at a Florida school, conspiracy theorists and other trolls harassing some of the survivors were spreading stories that those who spoke out for gun control were actors. The Twitter Safety account highlighted action the company was taking, and also revealed that it was using what it called anti-spam and anti-abuse tools, to weed out "malicious automation" - bots that retweet abusive messages thousands of times, amplifying their impact. In other words, both the social media firm and the troll army it is fighting are deploying what you might describe as autonomous weapons made possible by advances in machine learning. Twitter has also been rooting out bots apparently linked to Russia, following the indictment of 13 Russians believed to have created fake accounts to conduct information warfare against the US. That means that one of the scenarios described in a report on potential malicious use of artificial intelligence published this week has already come true. One of the global experts behind the report, Haydn Belfield from Cambridge University's Centre for the Study of Existential Risk, tells us that what he calls "AI-enabled interference" in the democratic process is one of their major concerns. "What we're particularly worried about is undermining institutions of democracy, undermining what enables us to trust our fellow citizens and know what's happening in the world." Advances in machine learning, coupled with software which makes it easy to produce fake speech and video are putting new tools in the hands of those with malicious purposes. "It's very cheap and very easy to pump this stuff out and it really undermines the ability to continue a functioning democratic conversation in society." The threat of AI is real and many of the technologies are already developed, warn 26 leading experts Not smart But do the bot armies which Twitter is battling really amount to an example of artificial intelligence - however widely defined - and are they really as potent a threat as has been claimed? Samantha Bradshaw, a researcher from the Computational Propaganda project at the Oxford Internet Institute, is rather more sceptical. She tells us that Twitter is finding it quite easy to spot automation and the bot creators are taking notice. "We're seeing a lot of bot developers taking a step back from automation, and instead blending automation with human curation," she said. That means they will post new comments, along with the automated retweets, to show that a "real person" is behind the account. While the spotlight has been on Russia when it comes to this wave of computational propaganda and other types of cyber-warfare, one expert tells us we should be more worried about North Korea. Dmitri Alperovitch is the Russian-born US cyber-security entrepreneur who founded Crowdstrike, the company which first identified Russian involvement in the hacking of America's Democratic Party. But he tells us that North Korea has spent 15 years building cyber-warfare capabilities, including "breaking into financial institutions and stealing hundreds of millions of dollars," and hacking Sony Pictures after it made a jokey film about the regime. What seems extraordinary is that a country that is so impoverished and so closed off from the outside world should be able to pose a serious cyber-warfare threat to  the United States, the world's technology superpower. "Anyone who can build a nuclear weapon can certainly do cyber," said Mr Alperovitch, explaining this is a kind of asymmetric warfare, where attack is easier than defence. Cyber-warfare techniques and artificial intelligence have advanced a long way in recent years. Linking the two fields could bring new threats to our security that we cannot imagine today. Podcast available now: