Russian pleads guilty to Tesla ransomware plot 20 March California-based company Tesla makes electric cars A Russian man in the US has pleaded guilty to plotting to extort money from the electric car company Tesla. Egor Igorevich Kriuchkov is accused of offering an employee $1m (£721,000) to place ransomware in the computer network of the company's battery plant in Nevada. He planned to use the ransomware to steal company secrets for extortion, prosecutors alleged. The 27-year-old pleaded guilty on Thursday in Reno, Nevada. Mr Kriuchkov acted on behalf of criminals abroad and tried to bribe a Tesla employee in person, prosecutors said. Ransomware attacks companies or organisations by scrambling their internal computer networks, stealing information or locking users out. The attackers then demand large sums of money in return for ending the hack. The FBI said the planned attack on Tesla was stopped before it could take place. Mr Kriuchkov told a court in September that the Russian government was aware of the planned hack, but the FBI and lawyers have not alleged that there were ties to the Kremlin. "The swift response of the company and the FBI prevented a major exfiltration of the victim company's data and stopped the extortion scheme at its inception," Acting Assistant Attorney General Nicholas McQuaid said in a statement. Mr Kruichokov was in the US for five weeks on a tourist visa in July and August last year when he tried to recruit the Tesla employee, according to court documents reported in US media. He was quoted as saying that he and his co-conspirators would steal the data, and if Tesla refused to pay the ransom the company's secrets would be placed on the internet. The US Department of Justice said that he took the employee out for drinks multiple times and gave him a phone. After the employee told Tesla about the plan, the company contacted the FBI who instructed the employee to record their conversations with Mr Kruichokov. Mr Kruichokov faces up to ten months in prison after signing a deal with prosecutors to plead guilty, according to technology website The Record. You might also be interested in: Watch: The factory brought to its knees by ransomware hackersTaiwan authorities look into Apple supplier hack 16 hours ago Authorities in Taiwan say they are looking into a ransomware cyber-attack on a major technology firm there. Quanta Computer is a manufacturer of many flagship Apple products, including its MacBook line. The hackers, known as Revil, have published stolen blueprints for unreleased products, and are threatening to release more. Taiwanese officials said they are "taking an initial step to look into and understand" the incident. It is being handled by the Ministry of Justice's investigation bureau. On their darknet website, the anonymous hackers are attempting to extort a ransom from Apple directly, writing: "We recommended that Apple buy back available data by 1 May." It is understood they are asking for tens of millions of pounds. How close the alleged blueprints will be to any actual future products is not clear. Bloomberg reports that the leaked materials include the schematics for a future MacBook laptop. The Guardian reports that a new Apple Watch is also among them. Apple has not responded, but Quanta confirmed a cyber-attack had taken place. In a press release, the company said: "Quanta Computer's information security team has worked with external IT experts in response to cyber-attacks on a small number of Quanta servers. "We've reported to, and kept seamless communications with, the relevant law enforcement and data protection authorities concerning recent abnormal activities observed. There's no material impact on the company's business operation." The release of the hacked material came just hours before Apple's major product showcase event on Tuesday. Revil said the timing was not a coincidence, writing that the data leak was "in order not to wait for the upcoming Apple presentations". The Taiwanese Investigation Bureau, under the Ministry of Justice, told Nikkei Asia: "We are aware of an alleged cyber-attack involving Quanta and we are taking an initial step to look into and understand the nature of the incident. "But we have not yet opened a case and launched an official probe." The Revil group - also known as Sodinokobi - is one of the most prolific and profitable cyber-criminal cartels in the world. The gang has previously hacked and extorted foreign exchange company Travelex, and New York law firm Grubman Shire Meiselas & Sacks.Insurers defend covering ransomware payments By Zoe Kleinman 27 January The Association of British Insurers (ABI) has defended the inclusion of ransomware payments in first-party cyber-insurance policies. It said insurance was "not an alternative" to doing everything possible to first minimise the risk. However, it added that firms could face financial ruin without the cover. Prof Ciaran Martin, former head of the National Cyber Security Centre, said the UK needed to rethink its policies on ransomware. 'Funding organised crime' Ransomware is a form of malware in which infected computers are remotely locked by cyber-criminals, who then demand a ransom, often in the form of Bitcoin, to unlock them and return the data they hold. There are many examples of businesses and public bodies which have chosen to pay because they do not have the data backed up, or cannot afford - or do not have time - to rebuild their systems from scratch. The Guardian reported that Prof Martin, now at Oxford University's Blavatnik School of Government, said he believed insurers were "funding organised crime" by accepting ransomware claims, but he told the BBC the issue of how to tackle ransomware was far broader than just the insurance sector. While official advice is not to pay the demand, it is not illegal to do so in the UK, he said. "I have some sympathy with insurers, because as long as it's legal, there are incentives to pay." While the ransom demand may be high, the alternative impact can also be devastating. When the global aluminium producer Norsk Hydro was attacked in 2019, it cost the firm around £45m , and its profits in the immediate aftermath plummeted by 82%, reported Reuters . Norsk Hydro refused to pay the demand, which would arguably have been cheaper - but it did have insurance. A spokesman for the ABI said insurers do require that "reasonable precautions" are taken to prevent cyber-attacks from succeeding in the first place, just as cars and houses require security measures in place to deter thieves. "Some might argue that any insurance that covers against a criminal act could lull the policyholder into a false sense of security," he said. Prof Martin said he did not think that banning ransomware insurance claims would necessarily solve the problem. "But it's worth a serious piece of consultation because if we continue as we are, things will get worse," he said.Cyberpunk 2077 makers CD Projekt hit by ransomware hack By Cristina Criddle 9 February Cyberpunk 2077 has been beset by delays and glitches The maker of popular video game Cyberpunk 2077 has been hacked in a ransomware attack. CD Projekt Red said hackers had accessed its internal network, digitally scrambled some of its data servers and tried to blackmail it. The perpetrators claim to have stolen source code for several of the firm's games which they said they would leak unless a payment was made. But the Polish games company said it would not negotiate. In a statement on Twitter, CD Projekt Red posted a copy of the ransom note which said the hackers had copied code from Cyberpunk 2077, Gwent, and Witcher 3, including an unreleased version of the latter. “We have also dumped all of your documents relating to accounting, administration legal, HR, investor relations and more!” the note added. "Dumping" means copying the information to an external source. “If we will not come to an agreement, then your source codes will be sold or leaked online and your documents will be sent to our contacts in gaming journalism,” read the note, giving a deadline of 48 hours. Source code is the human-readable version of a computer program before it is transformed for use. Releasing it could make it easier for people to write hacks for the titles or even publish their own altered versions, as well as reveal some of their development secrets. In a statement, posted by the game developers on Twitter, it said it has secured its “IT infrastructure and begun restoring the data” from back-ups. “We will not give in to the demands or negotiate with the actor,” it said, adding that no personal data had been compromised in the breach. The company has informed law enforcement and data protection authorities, while it investigates the issue. Keanu Reeves talks to BBC Sounds podcast Press X to Continue This is the latest in a series of bad news for the developers after the release of Cyberpunk 2077 was delayed several times, only for users to then experience glitches in the game. "This will be frustrating for users of the game, but as consumers are generally very sympathetic when something like this happens," said Louise Shorthouse, senior gaming analyst at Ampere Analysis. "This comes after a string of recent ransomware attacks on games companies, including Capcom and Ubisoft late last year. "Fixes and updates for Cyberpunk 2077 may take a backseat for a while, as mitigating the effects of the ransomware attack becomes the priority." This probably couldn't have come at a worse time for the embattled games studio. However, its response has been extraordinary and is already being praised by the cyber-security world. In one Tweet, the company has demonstrated a new gold standard response to dealing with ransomware. The company is being transparent about the attack but also says it is not negotiating with the cyber-criminals and instead relying on well-managed back-up systems. CD Projekt Red has even released a screen grab of the ransom note which will be invaluable for researchers. It doesn't sound like much and there will be questions about how the firm was able to be breached in the first place. But in a world of empty press releases and companies secretly paying criminals huge ransoms, CD Projekt Red has shown what can and, in the eyes of many, should be done to deal with the growing problem of ransomware hacking.Ransomware halts classes for 115,000 Baltimore pupils 30 November 2020 A ransomware attack on a school district in Maryland has halted classes for more than 115,000 pupils. Ransomware is a type of cyber-attack that locks down affected systems and make them unusable. And for Baltimore County public schools district, it meant all pupils learning remotely because of the pandemic could suddenly no longer access lessons. The district was hit last Wednesday, before Thanksgiving Day, but schools will remain shut on Monday and Tuesday. "Our focus today and for Monday and Tuesday is identifying and addressing student and staff device needs so that instruction can continue," it said in a Sunday evening update. But local newspaper the Baltimore Sun is reporting it could take weeks to restore the school district's computer systems fully. (1/3) Due to the recent ransomware attack, Baltimore County Public Schools will be closed for students on Monday, November 30, and Tuesday, December 1. BCPS offices will be open and staff will receive additional information about Monday and Tuesday. — Baltimore County Public Schools (@BaltCoPS) November 28, 2020 View original tweet on Twitter Classes could, however, resume within days, using alternative methods, the newspaper suggested. Offices remain open for staff. And the district is still providing free school meals. The school district took to social media to post updates and implore students not to log in to the compromised systems using school-issued Windows laptops. But it has offered very few details about the nature of the ransomware, beyond calling it a "catastrophic attack on our technology system". Technology explained: what is ransomware? As the name suggests, ransomware is often used to hold the victim to ransom - demanding payment to restore the system. But there is no guarantee the cyber-criminals will stick to their word once payment is made and law enforcement urges affected companies not to comply. The Baltimore school district said local, state and federal law enforcement agencies were all involved. "We understand how challenging this situation is for families and staff," it said. "And we thank you for your patience as we work through this crisis."'We have your porn collection': The rise of extortionware By Joe Tidy 30 March Cyber-security companies are warning about the rise of so-called 'extortionware' where hackers embarrass victims into paying a ransom. Experts say the trend towards ransoming sensitive private information could affect companies not just operationally but through reputation damage. It comes as hackers bragged after discovering an IT Director's secret porn collection. The targeted US firm has not publicly acknowledged that it was hacked. In its darknet blog post about the hack last month, the cyber-criminal gang named the IT director whose work computer allegedly contained the files. It also posted a screen grab of the computer's file library which included more than a dozen folders catalogued under the names of porn stars and porn websites. The infamous hacker group wrote: "Thanks God for [named IT Director]. While he was [masturbating] we downloaded several hundred gigabytes of private information about his company's customers. God bless his hairy palms, Amen!" The blog post has been deleted in the last couple of weeks, which experts say usually implies that the extortion attempt worked and the hackers have been paid to restore data, and not publish any more details. The company did not respond to requests for comment. The same hacker group is also currently trying to pressure another US utility company into paying a ransom, by posting an employee's username and password for a members-only porn website. 'The new norm' Another ransomware group which also has a darknet website shows the use of similar tactics. The relatively new gang has published private emails and pictures, and is calling directly for the mayor of a hacked municipality in the US to negotiate its ransom. In another case, hackers claim to have found an email trail showing evidence of insurance fraud at a Canadian agriculture company. Brett Callow, a threat analyst at cyber-security company Emsisoft, says the trend points to an evolution of ransomware hacking. "This is the new norm. Hackers are now actually searching the data for information that can be weaponised. If they find anything that is incriminating or embarrassing, they'll use it to leverage a larger pay-out. These incidents are no longer simply cyber-attacks about data, they are full-out extortion attempts." Another example of this was seen in December 2020, when the cosmetic surgery chain The Hospital Group was held to ransom with the threat of publication of 'before and after' images of patients. Ransomware is evolving Ransomware has evolved considerably since it first appeared decades ago. Criminals used to operate alone, or in small teams, targeting individual internet users at random by booby-trapping websites and emails. In the last few years, they've become more sophisticated, organised and ambitious. Technology explained: what is ransomware? Criminal gangs are estimated to be making tens of millions of dollars a year, by spending time and resources targeting and attacking large companies or public bodies for huge pay-outs, sometimes totalling millions of dollars. Brett Callow has been following ransomware tactics for years, and says he saw another shift in methods in late 2019. "It used to be the case that the data was just encrypted to disrupt a company, but then we started seeing it downloaded by the hackers themselves. "It meant they could charge victims even more because the threat of selling the data on to others was strong." Tough to defend against This latest trend of threatening to publicly damage an organisation or individual has particularly concerned experts because it is hard to defend against. Keeping good backups of company data helps businesses to recover from crippling ransomware attacks, but that is not enough when the hackers use extortionware tactics. Watch: The factory brought to its knees by ransomware hackers Cyber-security consultant Lisa Ventura said: "Employees should not be storing anything that could harm a firm reputationally on company servers. Training around this should be provided by organisations to all their staff. "It's a troubling shift in angle for the hackers because ransomware attacks are not only getting more frequent, they are also getting more sophisticated. "By identifying factors such as reputational damage, it offers far more leverage to extort money from victims." A lack of victim reporting and a culture of cover-up makes estimating the overall financial cost of ransomware difficult. Experts at Emsisoft estimate that ransomware incidents in 2020 cost as much as $170bn (£123bn) in ransom payments, downtime and disruption.School cyber-attack affects 40,000 pupils’ email 29 March Pupils using Harris Federation devices have had them disabled A ransomware attack on multiple schools has left 37,000 pupils unable to access their email. The Harris Federation, which runs 50 primary and secondary academies in and around London, said it had temporarily disabled email while it deals with the cyber-attack. Data on the systems has been encrypted and hidden by the attackers. Last week, the National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) issued a warning that hackers are targeting schools. 'Sophisticated attack' “We are at least the fourth multi-academy trust to have been targeted in March,” a statement on the Harris Federation website said. “This is a highly sophisticated attack that will have a significant impact on our academies but it will take time to uncover the exact details of what has or has not happened, and to resolve. “As a precaution, we have temporarily disabled our email system.” Any devices which the Harris Federation have given to pupils have also been disabled, the statement added. However, schools have recently returned to in-person learning as part of the easing of lockdown restrictions - meaning students can still attend classes. Technology explained: what is ransomware? Harris Federation schools break up for Easter later this week. Its statement did not detail what information or data has been compromised, and it has not yet responded to the BBC's request for comment. The trust is working with “a specialised firm of cyber-technology consultants”, the National Crime Agency and the NCSC to resolve the issues. The NCSC said it has "recently alerted the education sector to the significant threat posed by ransomware attacks" and urged schools and colleges to follow its advice to protect themselves online. It used to be the case that ransomware groups concentrated their efforts on large multinational companies. Big corporate budgets and potential business interruption mean large ransom payouts. Publicly funded schools and colleges are therefore an odd and particularly cruel target. One hacker group recently posted part of their negotiation conversation with another unnamed institution on the dark net. It made for grim reading, and once again showed me how ruthless they are. At one stage, when the hackers demanded $15m, the school wrote: "Sir, please, this is NOT a business with profits. We operate much like a charity operates. This is a state-funded school, our salaries are paid for by taxing the people that live in the state. We have no idea how you think we can afford this." This wave of attacks in the US and UK show the hackers have no regard for where the money comes from or who is affected.Should firms be more worried about firmware cyber-attacks? By Mary-Ann Russon 8 April Computing giant Microsoft recently put out a report claiming that businesses globally are neglecting a key aspect of their cyber-security - the need to protect computers, servers and other devices from firmware attacks. Its survey of 1,000 cyber-security decision makers at enterprises across multiple industries in the UK, US, Germany, Japan and China has revealed that 80% of firms have experienced at least one firmware attack in the past two years. Yet only 29% of security budgets have been allocated to protect firmware. However, the new report comes on the back of a recent significant security vulnerability affecting Microsoft's widely-used Exchange email system . And the computing giant launched a range of extra-secure Windows 10 computers last year that it says will prevent firmware from being tampered with. So is this just an attempt to divert attention and sell more PCs, or should businesses be more worried? How a firmware attack works Firmware is a type of permanent software code used to control each hardware component in a PC. Increasingly, cyber-criminals are designing malware that quietly tampers with the firmware in motherboards, which tell the PC to start up, or with the firmware in hardware drivers. This is a sneaky way to neatly bypass a computer's operating system or any software designed to detect malware, because the firmware code is in the hardware, which is a layer below the operating system. Security experts have told the BBC that even if IT departments are following cyber-security best practices like patching security vulnerabilities in software, or protecting corporate networks from malicious intrusions, many firms are still forgetting about the firmware. "People don't think about it in terms of their patching - it's not often updated, and when it is, sometimes it breaks things," explains Australian cyber-security researcher Robert Potter. Mr Potter built the Washington Post's cyber-security operations centre and has advised the Australian government on cyber-security. "Firmware patching can sometimes be tricky, so for a lot of companies, it's become a blind spot." A screenshot of the RobbinHood ransomware There have been several major firmware attacks discovered in the last two years, such as RobbinHood , a ransomware that uses firmware to gain root access to a victim's computer and then encrypts all files until a Bitcoin ransom has been paid. This malware held the data of several US city governments hostage in May 2019 . Another example is Thunderspy , an attack that utilises the direct memory access (DMA) function that PC hardware components use to talk to each other. This attack is so stealthy that an attacker can read and copy all data on a computer without leaving a trace, and the attack is possible even if the hard drive is encrypted, the computer is locked, or set to sleep. "If device firmware has no protection in place, or if the protection can be bypassed, then firmware compromise is both incredibly serious and potentially invisible," explains Chris Boyd, a malware intelligence analyst at security firm Malwarebytes. "Remote or physical compromise which permits rogue code to run can set the stage for data theft, system damage, spying, and more." Big organisations beware The good news is that firmware attacks are less likely to target consumers, but big firms should beware, according to Gabriel Cirlig, a security researcher with US cyber-security firm Human (formerly White Ops). "It is a big deal, but fortunately it only works against big organisations, because you need to target specific types of motherboards and firmware," he tells the BBC. Typically, cyber-criminals tend to attack operating systems and popular software, because they only make money if they can infect the biggest numbers of end users. Firmware attacks are less common and more complicated to implement than other types of cyber-attacks, but unfortunately the coronavirus pandemic has accelerated the problem. The pandemic has led to a sharp rise in devices connecting remotely to critical corporate network infrastructure The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), an agency within the US Department of Commerce, continually updates a National Vulnerability Database (NVD) with new security flaws. The database has recorded a five-fold increase in attacks against firmware in the last four years. Coronavirus lockdowns in multiple countries have led to multiple employees working from home and connecting remotely to work servers. Each one of those computers and mobile devices is an opportunity. Carrying out a firmware attack might be complex, says Mr Cirlig, but if attackers could silently steal critical information from a c-suite executive's laptop, like passwords, they could then use it to infiltrate a company's networks and steal more data. Nation-state hackers would be most likely to use such an attack, he adds. "This is a big operation with big pay-offs - it's not something that a small group of cyber-criminals has the manpower to do." Creeping soon to a network near you Although firmware attacks are not as ubiquitous as phishing scams, malware or other cyber-attacks, the cyber-security experts the BBC spoke to say now is the time for businesses, and the technology industry as a whole, to pay attention to hardware security . Hardware and firmware designers need to be included in the cyber-security discussion, say experts "Firmware attacks are not common on a day-to-day basis, but that's because people don't realise they're being infected by such an attack," says Mr Boyd. "It's like when ransomware first came onto the scene - people didn't know of anyone who was infected by it, and if big organisations were, they wouldn't tell anyone about it, as there was an element of shame, not wanting their clients to know they'd been infected." Mr Boyd adds that a new generation of "budding hardware enthusiasts" who have been learning their way around firmware by "modding video game consoles over the last decade" could well pose additional threats to enterprise cyber-security going forward - a point Mt Cirlig fervently agrees with, since he hacked the firmware in his own car when he was younger. "Microsoft is right to raise this as a major issue, because we need to bring firmware designers and operational technologies along the journey of cyber-security, the way we have with software companies," says Mr Potter. "As we connect more things to the internet, we're connecting a lot more devices that haven't been designed with cyber-security in mind. And if the trend continues, bad guys will go after it."Garmin begins recovery from ransomware attack 27 July 2020 Garmin's tech powers all kinds of fitness trackers The American GPS and fitness-tracker company Garmin is dealing with the aftermath of a ransomware attack, the BBC has confirmed. Owners of its products had been unable to use its services since Thursday. However, some of its online tools are now being provided in a "limited" state, according to its online dashboard . Garmin has said it was "the victim of a cyber-attack that encrypted some of our systems". But the statement it released avoided any reference to a ransom demand. "Many of our online services were interrupted including website functions, customer support, customer-facing applications, and company communications," it said. "We have no indication that any customer data, including payment information from Garmin Pay, was accessed, lost or stolen." The firm added that it expected all its systems to return to normal operation within a few days, but warned that there might be a "backlog" of user data to process. It is not known if the firm paid the blackmailers, but a source told the BBC it was in the "final stage of recovery". The BBC's cyber reporter Joe Tidy said the malware involved was Wasted Locker - a program that scrambles the target's data, and was first detected in the wild around April. Victims are typically contacted after their computers are infected, and told they must transfer funds if they want to return the files to their original state. Some customers have already reported that Garmin's services appear to be "partially" working again. Earlier reports claimed that the company had been asked to pay $10m (£7.79m) to get its systems back online. Pilots who use flyGarmin were unable to download up-to-date aviation databases, which aviation regulators such as the FAA require pilots to have, before they can fly. Customers were also unable to log into Garmin Connect to record and analyse their health and fitness data. There have been many high-profile attacks in recent months, but few victims have been as tight-lipped as Garmin. Even now, despite confirmation from many different sources across different newsrooms, the company is choosing not to admit it was ransomware. The big question is whether or not the company paid the blackmailer what is likely to be a multi-million dollar demand. It seems the company has somehow got the decryption key it needs to start bringing services back online. As well as customers and shareholders, the US authorities will be very keen to know what happened. Members of Evil Corp, the criminal group that's suspected of being behind the hack, were indicted in 2019 by the US Treasury.Redcar cyber-attack: Government to help cover costs 8 April The council had to build a new website and computer server A council left without online services for weeks following a cyber-attack is to receive £3.68m from the government to help towards the cost of rebuilding its systems. The attack was estimated to have cost Redcar and Cleveland Council £10m, with the authority having to foot the remainder of the bill itself. It said no ransom was paid to the hackers. Critics said the government should be covering more of the cost. Experts from the UK's National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) had to be drafted in to help restore appointment bookings, planning documents, social care advice and council housing complaints systems that had been knocked offline in February last year. 'Conned' over settlement The council said the money to be provided by the government would help replenish its reserves, which had been used to restore its online systems. It declined to say whether any services would be affected as a result of covering the remainder of the bill. Council leader Mary Lanigan, who heads a coalition of independents and Liberal Democrats, said: "We are pleased that the government recognised the unique circumstances under which we requested support, and awarded grant funding, rightly distinguishing the criminal ransomware attack suffered by the council from the financial rescue packages of some other local authorities where permission to borrow has been granted. "No money was handed over to these criminals and we continue to hope that they will eventually be brought to justice." Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland MP Simon Clarke, a Conservative, described the settlement as "exceptionally generous". Fellow Tory Jacob Young, MP for Redcar, said it would "go some way to restoring the hit on the council's finances". However, former council leader Sue Jeffrey, of Labour, said residents were being "conned into thinking they have got a good deal" having only been awarded "a tiny proportion of the support they were promised by the government and local Conservative MPs". Follow BBC North East & Cumbria on Twitter , Facebook and Instagram . Send your story ideas to northeastandcumbria@bbc.co.uk .Blackbaud Hack: Universities lose data to ransomware attack By Joe Tidy & Leo Kelion 23 July 2020 The University of York is one of those institutions affected At least 10 universities in the UK, US and Canada have had data stolen about students and/or alumni after hackers attacked a cloud computing provider. Human Rights Watch and the children's mental health charity, Young Minds, have also confirmed they were affected. The hack targeted Blackbaud, one of the world's largest providers of education administration, fundraising, and financial management software. The US-based company's systems were hacked in May. It has been criticised for not disclosing this externally until July and for having paid the hackers an undisclosed ransom. In some cases, the data was limited to that of former students, who had been asked to financially support the establishments they had graduated from. But in others it extended to staff, existing students and other supporters. The institutions the BBC has confirmed have been affected are: All the institutions are sending letters and emails apologising to those on the compromised databases. In some cases, the stolen data included phone numbers, donation history and events attended. Credit card and other payment details do not appear to have been exposed. Blackbaud, whose headquarters are based in South Carolina, declined to provide a complete lists of those impacted, saying it wanted to "respect the privacy of our customers". "The majority of our customers were not part of this incident," the company claimed. It referred the BBC to a statement on its website : "In May of 2020, we discovered and stopped a ransomware attack. Prior to our locking the cyber-criminal out, the cyber-criminal removed a copy of a subset of data from our self-hosted environment." The statement goes on to say Blackbaud paid the ransom demand. Doing so is not illegal, but goes against the advice of numerous law enforcement agencies, including the FBI, NCA and Europol. Blackbaud added that it had been given "confirmation that the copy [of data] they removed had been destroyed". Several Blackbaud clients listed on its site have confirmed they were not affected, including: "My main concern is how reassuring - impossibly so, in my opinion - Blackbaud were to the university about what the hackers have obtained," commented Rhys Morgan, a cyber-security specialist and former student at Oxford Brookes University, whose data was involved. "They told my university that there is 'no reason to believe that the stolen data was or will be misused'. "I can't feel reassured by this at all. How can they possibly know what the attackers will do with that information?" Oxford Brookes University is among those contacting students about the hack Blackbaud has said it is working with law enforcement and third party investigators to monitor whether or not the data is being circulated or sold on the dark web, for example. Barrister blogger Matthew Scott was also sent an email about the hack. "I doubt that my university has many details that aren't pretty easily available, but I am more concerned about giving in to the blackmail and blithely accepting the word of the blackmailer that all the data has now been destroyed," he told the BBC. Privacy law Under General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), companies must report a significant breach to data authorities within 72 hours of learning of an incident - or face potential fines. The UK's Information Commissioner's Office [ICO], as well as the Canadian data authorities, were informed about the breach last weekend - weeks after Blackbaud discovered the hack. An ICO spokeswoman said: "Blackbaud has reported an incident affecting multiple data controllers to the ICO. We will be making enquiries to both Blackbaud and the respective controllers, and encourage all affected controllers to evaluate whether they need to report the incident to the ICO individually." Leeds University said, in a statement: "We want to reassure our alumni that, since being informed by Blackbaud of this incident, we have been working tirelessly to investigate what has happened, in order to accurately inform those affected. No action is required by our alumni community at this time, although, as ever, we recommend that everyone remains vigilant."Microsoft hack: 3,000 UK email servers remain unsecured 12 March More than 3,000 UK email servers remain at risk from the global Microsoft Exchange email flaw, officials believe. The National Cyber Security Centre said it estimated 7,000 servers had been affected by the flaw in the UK and only half had been secured. It said malicious software had been detected on 2,300 machines but it had helped businesses remove it. The agency said it was "vital" that all affected businesses took action to secure their email servers. The announcement reveals the scale of the problem among UK companies for the first time since the global security flaw emerged last week. Ransomware groups have begun using the flaw to install their malicious programs, the NCSC warned - though there was no evidence of widespread ransomware attacks on UK companies so far. Once installed, ransomware locks away a user's data behind strong encryption, making the computer system unusable. The group then demands payment to unlock it - and if demands are not met, will steal or delete the data. Free-for-all The security flaw affects Microsoft's widely-used Exchange email system , which powers the email of major corporations, small businesses and public bodies worldwide. The NCSC is particularly concerned about small and medium-sized businesses that may not have heard about the issue. Initially, the flaw was being exploited by a hacking group to gain remote access to email servers, from which it could steal sensitive data. But after Microsoft warned the world it had identified the problem, and urged all its users to download the latest security updates, other hacking groups quickly became familiar with the flaw. The result is a widespread free-for-all as multiple hacking groups all try to find unpatched email servers to attack. "We are working closely with industry and international partners to understand the scale and impact of UK exposure, but it is vital that all organisations take immediate steps to protect their networks," NCSC's director for operations Paul Chichester warned. "While this work is ongoing, the most important action is to install the latest Microsoft updates." He also urged all organisations to "familiarise" themselves with the guidance surrounding ransomware attacks - and to search for any signs of their systems already being compromised. An emerging picture The true scale of this problem is still emerging with thousands of systems vulnerable in the UK alone. What is not yet entirely clear is the overall impact. While many systems are still at risk and thousands had malicious software installed, the number of cases where we know this was actually used to steal emails or lock people out with ransomware is still fairly low. That may change in the coming days as more reports come in. What is clear is that multiple hacking groups have piled in to exploit the vulnerability and those working on the defensive side are likely to stay busy for some time to come.Sepa spends nearly £800,000 on cyber attack response By Andrew Picken 3 April Scotland's environmental watchdog has spent nearly £800,000 on its response to a major cyber attack, new figures show. The Scottish Environment Protection Agency (Sepa) had more than 4,000 of its digital files stolen by hackers on Christmas Eve. The files were released on the internet when Sepa refused to pay a ransom. The public body has warned it could be next year before its systems have fully recovered from the attack. Figures released to BBC Scotland under freedom of information laws show a total of £790,000 has been spent on Sepa's response and recovery actions so far. This includes £458,000 on stabilising the watchdog's business IT platform. Sepa has restored the majority of its key services, such as flooding forecasting, but it is expected a full recovery from the attack will take up the remainder of 2021-22. Terry A'Hearn, Sepa's chief executive, said: "Whilst we initially lost access to our data and systems, what we didn't lose was the expertise of our 1,200 staff. "Since Christmas Eve, teams across the agency have been working flat-out to support our people, partners and customers and to restore our systems services as quickly as possible. "Our clear recovery strategy is gradually seeing systems being restored. By Easter, over 70% of staff will be back online and we're engaging data recovery specialists and are confident that we will recover the most important data." Sepa chief executive Terry A'Hearn said the organisation had faced a "significant and sophisticated cyber-attack" Sepa rejected a ransom demand for the attack, which was claimed by the international Conti ransomware group. Contracts, strategy documents and databases were among the 4,000 files released. The data has been put on the dark web - a part of the internet associated with criminality and only accessible through specialised software. Some of the information stolen was already publicly available but other files, including data about staff and suppliers, was not. Sepa told BBC Scotland a total of 54 people had been in touch to ask if their data was among the files stolen. This includes 27 current and former staff members. 'Sickening attack' Police Scotland is investigating the crime and has previously indicated the likely involvement of international serious and organised crime. Det Insp Michael McCullagh said: "Police Scotland is continuing to work closely with Sepa to investigate and provide support in response to this incident. "The actions of the criminals behind this crime show a blatant disregard for public safety, evident in this sickening attack on an organisation like Sepa. This type of crime and its impacts can be significant. "I would urge caution in the viewing and downloading of any data published by cyber criminals. The likelihood of those files being infected and making you their next victim is high."Redcar cyber-attack: Watchdog probes council 'ransomware' 17 February 2020 Redcar and Cleveland Borough Council's systems were first hit nine days ago A watchdog is probing a cyber-attack on a council which is still unable to provide any online services more than a week after its systems were crippled. Redcar and Cleveland Borough Council's website and all computers at the authority were attacked last Saturday, affecting 135,000 residents. One expert said it looked like a ransomware attack, where files are scrambled until a ransom is paid. The council notified the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO). The watchdog said the authority had "made us aware of an incident and we are assessing the information". The National Crime Agency said it was supporting the council, which has refused to confirm the nature of the hack. Online appointment bookings, planning documents, social care advice and council housing complaints systems are just some of the services currently offline. A team of experts from the UK's National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) has been on site since the attack at 11:00 GMT on 9 February. Council leader Mary Lanigan said "systems are being rebuilt" and they had "a massive team here - including cyber-security experts - working around the clock flat out to get it fixed". Technology explained: what is ransomware? The council said: "We are still able to receive and answer limited calls and emails and we will be prioritising urgent messages. "There may be a slight delay in dealing with non-urgent calls and messages as the council's website is currently down. "Our teams are working hard to resolve the problem and we would like to thank residents for their continued patience at this time." Security researcher Kevin Beaumont said: "It seems almost certain they have suffered a severe ransomware incident. "The serious nature of the attack and the impact it has had should raise eyebrows with UK authorities about the need to put more resources into tackling cyber-crime groups." Follow BBC North East & Cumbria on Twitter , Facebook and Instagram . Send your story ideas to northeastandcumbria@bbc.co.uk .Redcar council IT hack confirmed as ransomware attack 26 February 2020 Redcar and Cleveland Borough Council's systems were first hit almost two weeks ago A council has admitted its IT service is being targeted by hackers, who have scrambled files and demanded money. Systems at Redcar and Cleveland Council have been down for almost three weeks after the ransomware attack. It said it had been prioritising frontline services and has now built a new server and website, as well as mobilising a temporary call centre. However, there may be a short delay in letting children know which secondary school they have got places at. Since the attack on 8 February, the council has been working with the National Cyber Security Centre and the National Crime Agency. Joe Tidy BBC cyber security reporter It has taken 19 days for the council to admit they are dealing with a ransomware attack. This particularly nasty form of hack is unique and a growing problem for large targets like public authorities and companies. Informing the public their council is being held to ransom is a key piece of information that many think people have a right to know. It makes the situation far more serious as hackers are in control of computer systems and possibly sensitive data. The only options are to pay the cyber criminals or rebuild from scratch by using offline backups, which is often far more costly. With private firms the decision over whether or not to pay is often taken at board level behind closed doors but Redcar and Cleveland is a tax-payer funded body and residents may begin to demand transparency about how their money is being used. Councillor Mary Lanigan, leader of the council, said: "Significant progress has been made. "All frontline services have continued, payments continue to be processed as normal, and there is no evidence so far to suggest any personal information has been removed from our servers. "However, it may be some time before our IT capabilities are fully restored which may mean frustration for the public in dealing with us administratively." The delay in informing parents and carers of secondary school places would not affect the actual allocation, and it was anticipated primary admissions would be made on time, she said. "As a council, we have always taken cyber security seriously, and we will continue to engage with the relevant authorities to ensure our systems are as secure as possible in the future," she said Follow BBC North East & Cumbria on Twitter , Facebook and Instagram . Send your story ideas to northeastandcumbria@bbc.co.uk .Bedfordshire: Cyber-attack destroys school pupils' coursework 26 March The school said the attack was likely to cause long-term disruption Pupils' coursework has been destroyed in a "significant" cyber-attack on a school. Redborne Upper School and Community College in Bedfordshire said the attack took place on Wednesday. Although no data was taken, the school's servers were left unreadable resulting in "the loss of a significant amount of data", it added. The school said it was working "to ensure that no students will be disadvantaged". In a letter sent to parents on Friday, the school, based in Flitwick Road, Ampthill, said it had rebuilt its servers. It said: "This process has resulted in the loss of a significant amount of data including student user areas." The school said no data had left its servers "and no unauthorised persons have access to any information". Exam board discussions Students' personal data including academic records was kept on a different server, said the school. The letter said: "It is this data that will form the basis of the grades we will be supplying to exam boards this summer in most cases." However, it added coursework, which would play "a significant role" in some subjects, had been lost. "To mitigate this we have already contacted the exam boards and are in the process of putting in place arrangements to ensure that no students will be disadvantaged by the impact of this," the letter said. The school added it still has "sufficient data" to "award accurate grades this summer". The incident comes days after the University of Northampton reported it had been hit by a cyber-attack which had interrupted IT and telephone services. The National Cyber Security Centre said since late February an increased number of ransomware attacks had affected education establishments. Speaking on the Today programme on Friday, its chief executive Lindy Cameron said the coronavirus pandemic has "highlighted both the scale of our dependence on the digital world and the challenges we face". But she added the UK is "one of the safest places to live and work online". Find BBC News: East of England on Facebook , Instagram and Twitter . If you have a story suggestion email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.ukRansomware attack takes US maritime base offline 2 January 2020 A computer virus forced a US-regulated maritime facility offline for more than 30 hours, the country's coast guard has revealed. Ransomware interrupted cameras, door-access control systems and critical monitoring systems at the site. The agency did not reveal the name or the location of the facility targeted by the attack. Officials said they believed the ransomware was sent in a malicious email link, clicked by an employee. Technology explained: what is ransomware? The US Coast Guard (USCG) issued a security bulletin on 16 December, urging other bases to take measures to prevent further attacks. "Once the embedded malicious link in the email was clicked by an employee, the ransomware allowed for a threat actor to access significant enterprise information technology (IT) network files, and encrypt them, preventing the facility's access to critical files," it said. "The virus further burrowed into the industrial control systems that monitor and control cargo transfer and encrypted files critical to process operations." The BBC has contacted the USCG for more details. Ransomware attacks were a significant problem during 2019, when several companies and governments were targeted. The city of New Orleans declared a state of emergency in December after suspicious activity was detected on its network. Once officials confirmed they were under attack, servers and computers were closed down. Weeks earlier, Virtual Care Provider, which offers technology services to nursing homes, was hit by a ransomware attack that encrypted patients' health records. Hackers demanded $14m (£10.6m) to restore access to the hijacked servers.Ransomware-hit US gas pipeline shut for two days 19 February 2020 A ransomware attack on a US natural gas facility meant a pipeline had to be shut down for two days, the US Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has said. However, it did not name the facility or say when the attack happened. A malicious link sent to staff at the facility eventually caused the shutdown "of the entire pipeline asset". It was so severe in part because the organisation was not prepared for such an attack, the DHS statement said. The incident was detailed in a security alert. , which revealed it to be a "spear-phishing" attack, in which individuals are sent fraudulent but believable scam messages. That let the attacker into the company's IT network. How did that shut down a pipeline? Often, the "operational network" which runs computers in the factory is separated from the office IT - but not in this case, meaning the ransomware infection was allowed to spread. Ransomware typically encrypts files on a victim's computer and demands payment before offering to unlock them again - although there is no guarantee that the cyber-criminals who develop such software will be true to their word. Technology explained: what is ransomware? A spate of ransomware attacks has troubled various US organisations recently - from local authorities to hospitals to a maritime base . In the case of the natural gas facility, only one office was targeted, but others in different geographic locations were forced to close down, too. The DHS said the affected organisation had not properly prepared for a cyber-attack of this kind - with its emergency plans being focused on all sorts of physical attacks instead. "Consequently, emergency response exercises also failed to provide employees with decision-making experience in dealing with cyber-attacks," the department added. All organisations, regardless of what sector they are in, should prepare for the possibility of a ransomware attack, said Carl Wearn, head of e-crime at cloud email firm Mimecast. Businesses could do this "by implementing offline back-ups with a fall-back email and archiving facility, as a minimum" he said.University of Northampton hit by cyber-attack 24 March The cyber-attack on the University of Northampton has disrupted its phone and IT systems A university said it continued to be "severely impacted" nearly a week after being hit by a cyber-attack. The University of Northampton said the attack on 17 March interrupted services to its IT and telephone systems and servers. The Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) has been told "as a precaution" and police are investigating. A spokesman for the university said it was working to "resolve this issue as quickly as possible". He said the university had involved "IT forensics investigators" who were advising on how to restore services and the possible cause. "The full facts of the situation have not yet been established," he added. Our UON phone and IT systems are currently down – we’re so sorry for the inconvenience caused. Our team is working across the network to resolve the issue, and we’ll update as soon as systems are up and running again. Thanks #UON  pic.twitter.com/0FW2CIzzmE — UniofNorthampton (@UniNorthants) March 17, 2021 View original tweet on Twitter Third-year journalism student, Lucy Holmes, 20, who has her final-year project to hand in shortly, said the loss of the university intranet was "very annoying". Ms Holmes said it meant she could not access any of her course material, tutor feedback or the online library, "which is really hard when I am trying to complete my dissertation". Student Lucy Holmes said the cyber attack has come in the middle of her most important term Fellow student, Richard Smyth, 19, from Northern Ireland, was having all his lectures online with one day a week of face-to-face learning. The first year student said the cyber attack has meant that all assignment deadlines have had to be pushed back. He added that students still had access to UK Wifi networks. "There has been some alternative ways to get round this [cyber attack] with teachers trying their best to keep things going using alternative video-conferencing platforms," he said. Richard Smyth said tutors had been "trying their best to keep things going using alternative video-conferencing platforms" Universities and colleges were warned by the UK's cyber-security agency about a rise in cyber-attacks. The National Cyber Security Centre said that since late February, an increased number of ransomware attacks had affected education establishments. Earlier this month Queen's University in Belfast had to suspend access to several of its systems as a precaution following an attempted cyber-attack . The University of Northampton said those who carried out the attack had "no regard to the disruption to teaching and learning such attacks cause". Northamptonshire Police said it was working with the National Cyber Security Centre to "support the university and investigate this cyber-attack". A spokeswoman for the force said inquiries were "ongoing". Find BBC News: East of England on Facebook , Instagram and Twitter . If you have a story suggestion email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.ukRansomware hits Johannesburg electricity supply 26 July 2019 The ransomware attack has affected the electricity company's ability to respond to power failures A major electricity supplier in South Africa's largest city has suffered a ransomware attack, leaving some residents without power. City Power revealed on Thursday that its IT systems had been shut down. "It has encrypted all our databases, applications and network," the company tweeted , referring to the virus. City Power's website remains offline and residents have reported problems via social media with their electricity supplies. The ransomware attack initially affected customers' ability to buy pre-paid electricity and also hampered the firm's efforts to respond to localised blackouts. A spokesman for City Power told the BBC that more than a quarter of a million people might have been affected. "These are the people on pre-paid system[s] and would at any given day buy electricity," he said. "Those people were not able to access the system." Technology explained: what is ransomware? Ransomware is a type of malware that infects computers and encrypts or locks files and systems. Attackers say they will restore access once a payment is made - but there is no guarantee that they will do so. The City of Johannesburg, which owns the electricity company, said that most IT systems had now been restored. However, city officials acknowledged that there were still problems and said customers could log faults on an alternative website . "Customers should not panic as none of their details were compromised," read a tweet posted by the city's official Twitter account . "We apologise for the inconvenience caused to the people of the City of Joburg."Exchange email hack: Hundreds of UK firms compromised By Joe Tidy 11 March Hundreds of UK companies have been compromised as part of a global campaign linked to Chinese hackers. Cyber-security firm Eset said more than 500 email servers in the UK may have been hacked, and many companies are not aware they are victims of the attack. It comes as governments around the world warn organisations to secure their systems. But some experts fear it may be too late, as at least 10 hacking teams are capitalising on the chaos. The UK's National Cyber Security Centre has joined US authorities in issuing warnings about the hack, but says it is still assessing the situation for UK businesses. Meanwhile, the Norwegian cyber-authority is actively scanning for at-risk companies in the country and warning them directly. 'Zero-day' The hacking campaign was first announced by Microsoft on 2 March and blamed on a Chinese government-backed hacking group called Hafnium. Microsoft said the group was using four never-before-seen hacking techniques to infiltrate the email systems of US companies. The attackers targeted the popular email system Microsoft Exchange Server, used by large corporations and public bodies across the world. Microsoft released software updates for the so called "zero-day" exploits and urged customers to install them to protect themselves. However, the hacking has escalated from straightforward espionage to crisis levels, with some reports estimating tens of thousands of organisations could be affected. 'Race now on' According to cyber-security researchers at Eset, as many as 10 different hacking groups are now actively using the zero-days exploits to target companies in 115 different countries. Cyber-researchers at FireEye also confirmed they had detected multiple groups, likely to be based in China, using the exploit in different waves. "As always, it is complex but it is very likely that Hafnium gifted these 'zero days' to government-sanctioned groups to actively use the flaws once they were rumbled," Jake Moore at Eset said. "The race is now on for all of those affected to patch immediately and then painstakingly check for any recent compromises and make sure no webshells are installed on the servers." Watch: The factory brought to its knees by ransomware hackers Webshells being dropped A webshell is a piece of computer code that can act like a backdoor into a computer network. Once installed, hackers have a foothold in a network and can either steal or spy on email messages, or use the access to launch more crippling cyber-attacks. Globally, Eset says it has detected the backdoors on 5,000 separate servers - and more than 500 of them are in the UK. Cyber-security responders are racing to find out which companies have been hacked, and remove the webshells to kick the hackers out of their systems. Beware the second wave CyberGuard Technologies says it is dealing with 42 separate cases where hackers have installed webshells, with the number rising by the hour. The companies range from financial institutions, manufacturing and retail. Sean Tickle, head of CyberGuard, said: "It's widespread and very much a case of hackers hosing their attacks at as many targets as they can before companies can secure their systems. "It only takes someone to alter this approach to drop a more malicious malware package and we're going to see some real hurt for the companies that fall behind. "There's already rumblings that these shells are being used, and I think we're going to see mass ransomware attacks happen as a second wave of this."US hospitals turn away patients as ransomware strikes 2 October 2019 Only the most critical new patients are currently being admitted to the three hospitals in Alabama Three US hospitals have been forced to temporarily close their doors to "all but the most critical new patients" following a ransomware outbreak. "A criminal is limiting our ability to use our computer systems in exchange for an as-yet unknown payment," said DCH Health System . DCH operates the three affected hospitals in Alabama. One cyber-security expert said the groups using ransomware were becoming increasingly well organised. Computers at the DCH Regional Medical Center in Tuscaloosa, Fayette Medical Center and Northport Medical Center were infected with ransomware. The incident was first reported on 1 October. "We will continue to divert any new admissions, other than those that are critical, to other facilities," DCH said in its statement. Local ambulances have been asked to take patients to other local hospitals instead, where possible. Outpatients with appointments at any of the three hospitals were advised to call before attending them. However, elective procedures and surgery already scheduled for 2 October were planned to go ahead. It is not yet known what group or individual launched the ransomware. Australian hospitals struck Separately, seven hospitals in Australia have also reported disruptive ransomware infections. "Some elective surgery and appointments have been cancelled," said Barwon Health , one hospital operator affected by the incident. The Government of Victoria said the seven hospitals were located in Gippsland and south-west Victoria. Multiple computer systems have had to be disconnected as a result, which has meant some patient record, booking and management services have been shut down. This could affect efforts to contact patients and schedule appointments, the Government of Victoria said: "Where practical, hospitals are reverting to manual systems to maintain their services." Technology explained: what is ransomware? In cases where patient histories, charts, images and other information has been made unavailable, it may be necessary to reschedule some appointments, the authority added. Daniel Andrews, Premier of Victoria, told local media it could take "weeks" before the problems were fixed. The Victorian Government Cyber Incident Response Service has dealt with more than 600 cyber-attacks since July 2018. "Unfortunately the groups breaking into individual computers at organisations are becoming rapidly better at obtaining access across networks, and then causing chaos with a goal to being paid," said UK-based cyber-security expert Kevin Beaumont. "This problem isn't going to go away," he added. He said organisations needed to review their security procedures and ensure that backups were in place - and also that such backups had been recently tested - so that data and systems could be restored in the event of a ransomware infection.Texas government organisations hit by ransomware attack 19 August 2019 Ransomware is a type of malicious software that disables a computer and its data until a payment is made Hackers have infected 23 organisations connected to local government in the US state of Texas with ransomware. Officials indicated the attack over the weekend was co-ordinated. The Texas Department of Information said the attack had primarily affected smaller local government departments. A spokesman said the situation was still ongoing on Monday morning. Texan authorities have drafted in cyber-security experts, as well as the military and counter-terrorism units, to help bring systems back online. In a statement, the Texas Department of Information Resources said evidence suggested the attacks "came from one single threat actor". Officials did not release specific details of the affected departments or say whether the cyber-criminals had specified a ransom amount. Ransomware is a type of malicious software that cyber-criminals use to disable a computer and its data until a ransom is paid. Hackers have targeted a number of US states this year, paralysing government computers in New York, Maryland and Florida. In May, hackers seized control of thousands of government computers in Baltimore. The attack disabled email accounts and prevented online payments to city departments for weeks. Technology explained: what is ransomware? How have cities dealt with ransomware attacks? Officials in Baltimore refused to pay the ransom, opting instead to manually process thousands of transactions, including home sales. They also slowly restored access to around 10,000 employee email accounts. The city estimated losses of around $18m (£15m) from the attack. The hackers originally demanded $100,000 worth of Bitcoin. Other cities have chosen to pay. In June, council leaders in Riviera Beach, Florida, voted to pay almost $600,000 in the digital currency Bitcoin to hackers who paralysed the city's computer systems for weeks. A week later, officials in Lake City, Florida paid hackers $500,000 following a similar ransomware demand. Lisa Forte, a partner at Red Goat Cyber Security, which specialises in cyber-security testing, said ransom payments left cities vulnerable to more attacks. She said: "Even if you do recover your data, your organisation will likely be added to a list on the dark web of 'organisations that pay ransoms'. This may lead to you being targeted again." Are cities becoming easy targets? Ransomware attacks are on the increase. Liron Barak, chief executive of cyber-security firm BitDam, said the complex structure of government departments often made them an easy target for hackers. She said: "In addition, local governments tend to communicate with a wide variety of businesses and individuals, with many of them being one-time contacts. "This makes them more vulnerable to attacks, as their employees don't know most of the contacts with whom they communicate, in person."Google thwarts Baltimore ransomware fightback 24 May 2019 Baltimore's government servers were hit on 7 May by ransomware Google has inadvertently thwarted attempts by Baltimore's city government to fight off crippling ransomware. The cyber-attack struck civil computers in Baltimore on 7 May, blocking email accounts and online payment systems. City officials set up GMail accounts to restore communications between citizens and staff. The mass creation of the accounts triggered Google's GMail defences which shut them down, believing they were being used by spammers. Google said it restored access to the GMail accounts once it discovered who had created them and why. "Our automated security systems disabled the accounts due to the bulk creation of multiple consumer Gmail accounts from the same network," Google told the BoingBoing website. House sales on hold The cyber-attack has meant that many day-to-day administration tasks of Baltimore's city government have stopped. It has delayed the sales of many homes, and stopped water bills being generated. And people cannot pay tax bills or parking fines. A manual workaround for the home sales has been put in place, and the switch from internal email to GMail was another scheme to defeat the attackers. The cyber-criminals who launched the ransomware attack have demanded a payment of $100,000 (£79,000) in Bitcoins to restore control of official systems to city workers. About 10,000 computers were hit by the virus. Baltimore has so far refused to pay the ransom. The FBI and Secret Service are known to be investigating. City Mayor Bernard Young said it was unclear when systems would be back in full operation. Last year Baltimore was hit by a cyber-attack which knocked out the communications systems for emergency services for a day.The quiet scheme saving thousands from ransomware By Joe Tidy 26 July 2019 Ransomware outbreaks can cost large businesses and organisations millions A free scheme to prevent cyber-attack victims paying ransom to hackers claims to have saved more than 200,000 victims at least $108m (£86m). The No More Ransom project offers advice and software to recover computer files encrypted in ransomware attacks. Founded by Europol, police in the Netherlands, and McAfee, it now has more than 150 global partners. With 14 new tools introduced in 2019 alone, Europol says it can now decrypt 109 different types of infection. "When we take a close look at ransomware, we see how easy a device can be infected in a matter of seconds," says Steven Wilson, head of Europol's European Cybercrime Centre (EC3). 'Memories disappear' "A wrong click and databases, pictures and a life of memories can disappear forever. "No More Ransom brings hope to the victims, a real window of opportunity, but also delivers a clear message to the criminals: the international community stands together with a common goal, operational successes are and will continue to bring the offenders to justice." Technology explained: what is ransomware? Among the ransomware campaigns tackled by the project is GandCrab - one of the most aggressive in 2018. Since the release of the first GandCrab tool in February 2018, nearly 40,000 people have successfully decrypted their files, saving roughly $50m in ransom payments. In 2019, there has been a surge in ransomware attacks particularly aimed at large companies. One company, Norsk Hydro, has already spent well over £50m recovering from an attack in March that halted production lines and locked staff out of their computers . In the US, multiple local government authorities have been hit with ransomware attacks, some choosing to pay hundreds of thousands of dollars to hackers. After South Korea, most web traffic to No More Ransom comes from the US. However, the US is not a partner in the project. The full partners consist of 36 law enforcement agencies from Europe, Asia and South America. The US should be doing more to help victims and tackle cyber-criminals, says Fabian Wosar, head of cyber-security company Emsisoft, which has donated more decryption tools to the project than anyone else. Mr Wosar told BBC News: "Projects like No More Ransom have been crucial when it comes to fighting ransomware on a global level, with pretty much all major parties cooperating on a global and daily basis, sharing intel[igence] in real-time - except for the US. "The US should consider the success of the No More Ransom Project to be a call to action. "Better cooperation between the private sector and law enforcement could result in fewer ransom demands being paid. "That would make cyber-crime less profitable and, consequently, reduce the financial incentive for groups to commit cyber-crime."Baltimore ransomware attack: NSA faces questions 27 May 2019 Staff at Baltimore City Hall have been unable to send or receive emails Politicians representing a US city struck by a ransomware attack are asking questions of the National Security Agency after claims it helped make the breach possible. The New York Times reported on Saturday that a hacking vulnerability known as EternalBlue has been exploited to blackmail Baltimore's local government. The NSA discovered the flaw, but the paper claims that its cyber-spies kept the discovery secret for years. The NSA declined to comment. But the report has particular resonance as the organisation is headquartered at Fort Meade, Maryland, which is a short drive from Baltimore. "We don't have anything for you on this," an NSA spokesman told the BBC. The EternalBlue flaw has been implicated in a range of cyber-attacks over the past three years, including the WannaCry assault that disrupted the UK's NHS. It involves a bug in old versions of Microsoft's Windows operating system that allows other malicious code to be run on infected computers. The NSA reportedly created a tool to do this, which it also called EternalBlue. The New York Times said the agency did not disclose the problem to Microsoft for more than five years until a breach forced its hand. Microsoft released a fix for EternalBlue flaw in March 2017. Weeks later, a group calling itself the Shadow Brokers leaked the NSA's related hacking tool online . The NSA has never confirmed how it came to lose control of its code nor officially commented on the affair. But the suggestion is that if it had shared its findings with Microsoft at an earlier stage, fewer PCs would have been exposed to subsequent attacks that made use of the vulnerability. Email lock-out Thousands of Baltimore's city government computers were frozen on 7 May after their files became digitally scrambled. The criminals responsible demanded 13 Bitcoin ($114,440; £90,200) to unlock them all, or three Bitcoin to release specific systems ahead of a deadline, which has now passed. The authorities refused. The city's website informs vistors that it cannot currently process online payments Local residents have been unable to pay utility bills, parking tickets and some taxes online as a consequence. In addition, staff have been unable to send or receive emails from their normal accounts. Senator Chris Van Hollen and Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger have told the Baltimore Sun newspaper that they are now seeking "a full briefing" directly from the NSA. "We must ensure that the tools developed by our agencies do not make their way into the hands of bad actors," the senator told the paper. Some security experts say if EternalBlue is truly involved, then IT managers should have installed a patch long ago. Eternalblue was released over two years ago.. If an organization has substantial numbers of Windows machines that have gone 2 years without patches, then that's squarely the fault of the organization, not Eternalblue. — Robᵇᵉᵗᵒ Graham (@ErrataRob) May 25, 2019 View original tweet on Twitter But one consultant noted that this may have been easier said than done. "For some organisations, patching can be a non-trivial exercise, even with a couple of years of lead time," said Troy Hunt. "Specialised systems such as medical devices, for example, often go unpatched for long periods of time. "Offsetting that risk are factors such as the devices not being internet-connected. although given we're still seeing infections due to EternalBlue two years after it was patched, evidently there are still systems out there both unpatched and exposed." On the ground in Baltimore: It's not exactly the talk of the town here - after all, it's not like Facebook has gone down, merely crucial public services. For those who have been affected, it's very frustrating - a delayed house sale here, a new business that can't open on schedule there. One person told me about how they have been unable to pay for their wedding venue at a place part-owned by the city. Another told me they couldn't go online to pay a parking ticket - that's not as fortunate as it sounds, trust me. A further kick in the teeth for this city is the suggestion that this attack used an exploit discovered not by the Russians or Chinese, but by an organisation based just 20 miles away - the US National Security Agency. City officials want answers on that, but locals don't want it to be a scapegoat. There have been repeated warnings here about severe underinvestment in government IT infrastructure.Baltimore government held hostage by hackers' ransomware 23 May 2019 Baltimore's government servers have been attacked by ransomware The US city of Baltimore's government, long plagued by dysfunction, is now battling a ransomware attack that has crippled its systems for more than two weeks and counting. Hackers breached the Maryland city's servers on 7 May and demanded $100,000 (£79,000) worth of Bitcoin. The ransomware has blocked government email accounts and disabled online payments to city departments. Baltimore city officials have so far refused to pay the ransom. It is the second cyber-attack to strike the city in as many years - the last one knocked out its emergency dispatch system for about a day. The FBI and Secret Service are investigating the latest breach. How long will it last? Baltimore Mayor Bernard "Jack" Young has acknowledged it is unclear when the systems will be back in operation this time. "I know the folks in the technology office are working diligently to bring us back on board," said his spokesman, Lester Davis. Aviel Rubin, a cybersecurity expert and computer science professor at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, estimates "conservatively" that it will be months before the systems are up and running. "It's clear the system was vulnerable," he adds. How damaging is the cyber-attack? More than 1,500 homes sales have been delayed because the hackers left the city unable to notify insurers whether the sellers had any unpaid liens. Baltimore this week rolled out a "manual workaround" to allow real estate transactions to proceed during the outage. But citizens are unable to access online sites to pay their water bills, property taxes and parking tickets. And 10,000 city government computers are locked, leaving employees with no email. The city said there would be no late fees or fines during the technological shutdown. Technology explained: what is ransomware? What do the hackers want? In the ransom note, obtained by the Baltimore Sun , hackers demanded payment of three bitcoins - currently worth around $23,600 - per system, or 13 bitcoins for the release of the entire government network. If the city failed to pay within four days, the note said, the price would increase. After 10 days - a deadline that lapsed last week - the city would not be able to get the data back. "We've watched you for days and we've worked on your systems to gain full access to your company and bypass all of your protections," the hackers wrote. "We won't talk more, all we know is MONEY!" Baltimore City core essential services (police, fire, EMS and 311) are still operational but it has been determined that the city’s network has been infected with a ransomware virus. City employees are working diligently to determine the source and extent of the infection. — Mayor Bernard C. Jack Young (@mayorbcyoung) May 7, 2019 View original tweet on Twitter What makes the ransomware so effective? The program, called RobbinHood, makes it impossible to access the servers without a specific digital key. Prof Rubin said that the ransomware uses a publicly available algorithm called RSA to encrypt the data. "It is believed that no government has the capability to break it," Prof Rubin said. Without the key - held by the hackers - it's as if Baltimore's government "just lost everything", he said. Baltimore has contracted computer experts to help. The ransomware attack in Baltimore reflects wider cyber-security risks nationwide. Have any other US cities been targeted? Atlanta, Georgia, was hit with a similar breach in March 2018. That one was attributed to two Iranians. Local media reported the hack cost the city $17m to recover. Fortunately for Atlanta, the city had cyber-insurance, which helped the city foot the bill for its digital recovery. Baltimore had no such policy in place before this month's attack. "This is impacting cities throughout the country," the Baltimore mayor's spokesman said. "It's not a matter of if, it's a matter of when." The Baltimore breach reflects a wider increase in ransomware attacks, Prof Rubin said, to which many government agencies have been slow to respond. Hasn't Baltimore got enough problems? Yes. Fallout from a sprawling corruption scandal in the city's police department has been playing out since 2017 after eight police officers were found guilty of robbing citizens and stealing overtime pay. Earlier this month Baltimore Mayor Catherine Pugh resigned amid uproar over lucrative business deals for her self-published children's books. Mr Young enjoyed no political honeymoon when he stepped in to replace Ms Pugh on 9 May - two days after the cyber-attack.Second US town pays up to ransomware hackers 26 June 2019 More than one town in Florida has been bit by ransomware lately A town in Florida has paid $500,000 (£394,000) to hackers after a ransomware attack. The total paid by Florida municipalities over ransomware in the last two weeks now stands at $1.1m. Officials in Lake City voted to pay hackers in Bitcoin after suffering downed computer systems for two weeks. Coastal suburb Riviera Beach recently paid hackers $600,000 following a similar incident that locked municipal staff out of important files. According to reports, IT staff in Lake City disconnected staff computers within minutes of the attack starting, but it was too late. Workers were locked out of email accounts and members of the public were left unable to make municipal payments online. The town's insurer was contacted by the hackers and negotiated ransom payment of 42 bitcoins, or roughly $500,000. Officials felt that paying the ransom was the most efficient way of regaining computer access. "I would have never dreamed this could have happened, especially in a small town like this," mayor Stephen Witt told local media. Insurance would cover the vast majority of the ransom payment, he added, although $10,000 would be incurred by taxpayers. Switch to paper Just last week, it was reported that another Florida municipality had paid $600,000 in Bitcoin to hackers following a similar ransomware attack. The computer infection in Riviera Beach, a suburb of Palm Beach, affected email as well as emergency response systems and forced staff to switch to using paper for some tasks. Ransomware attacks have become an increasingly common tool for cyber-criminals. Municipal staff in one Alaskan community reverted to using typewriters after their computers were hit by ransomware last year. Attacks have also affected the US cities of Baltimore and Atlanta as well as towns in California, North Carolina and Ohio, among other places. In 2016, three US hospitals were hit by ransomware infections . "Ransomware is the canary in the coal mine," said cyber-security expert Kevin Beaumont, who argued that the spate of attacks showed organisations needed to get better at basic IT security. "Organisations are financing their attackers to be better than them - and sooner or later that situation may snowball for everybody else trying to defend their networks." Technology explained: what is ransomware? He advised having robust back-ups and disaster recovery protocols to avoid being crippled by ransomware, should it strike. Cyber-security experts have consistently advised not paying ransoms as there is no guarantee files or computer systems will be restored. But recovering from a ransomware infection without paying up is also expensive. The large aluminium manufacturer Norsk Hydro recently became a victim of ransomware and decided not to pay the hackers. Nonetheless, the cost of recovering from the attack has so far totalled £45m.How a ransomware attack cost one firm £45m By Joe Tidy 25 June 2019 Aluminium maker Norsk Hydro refused to pay ransomware hackers - many others pay up When malicious hackers disable your business and demand a ransom, should you pay up? Many firms do out of desperation, turning to intermediaries to help broker the deal. But law enforcement says this just makes things worse. Imagine the excitement when hackers gained a foothold in the computer system of Norsk Hydro, a global aluminium producer. We don't know when it was, but it's likely that once inside they spent weeks exploring this group's IT systems, probing for more weaknesses. When they eventually launched their ransomware attack, it was devastating - 22,000 computers were hit across 170 different sites in 40 different countries. Chief information officer Jo De Vliegher reopens the ransom note that appeared on computers all over the company. It read: "Your files have been encrypted with the strongest military algorithms... without our special decoder it is impossible to restore the data." Watch: The factory brought to its knees by ransomware hackers The entire workforce - 35,000 people - had to resort to pen and paper. Production lines shaping molten metal were switched to manual functions, in some cases long-retired workers came back in to help colleagues run things "the old fashioned way". In many cases though, production lines simply had to stop. Imagine the hacker's anticipation as they waited to receive a reply to their ransom note. After all, every minute counts for a modern manufacturing powerhouse. They probably thought they could name their price. But the reply never came. The hackers were never even asked how much money they wanted. Imagine the shock. All that work. For nothing. Technology explained: what is ransomware? It's been more than three months since Norsk Hydro was attacked and they are still many months away from making a full recovery. It's so far cost them more than £45m. But what they've lost in productivity and revenue, they've arguably gained in reputation. The company's response is being described as "the gold standard" by law enforcement organisations and the information security industry. Not only did they refuse to pay the hackers but they've also been completely open and transparent with the outside world about what happened to them. But there are many other companies and organisations who make the opposite choice, and evidence is growing that ransomware hackers are increasingly being paid off secretly by victims - and their insurance companies - looking for the easy way out. "It's become a simple business case for many organisations to pay, and at this point it's a known secret that this is happening," says Josh Zelonis, cyber-security analyst at Forrester. A ransomware attack can cause huge damage to a company's operations Secrecy surrounds the practice because organisations are concerned about the possibility of litigation and the damage to their reputations following an attack, says Mr Zelonis. "And a lot of the time incident response companies are being brought in to broker the transaction with the adversaries themselves in order to ensure that the payment is made and recovery is possible," he says. Sources in the information security industry have described multiple occasions when large, well-known companies have paid out thousands of pounds - in some cases hundreds of thousands - to hackers and not told the public or even shareholders. More Technology of Business Just last week, a Florida town paid hackers $600,000 (£475,000) to get its computers working again after a ransomware attack disabled email, hit emergency response systems and forced staff to use paper-based admin systems. It's a troubling trend that's prompted Europol, the European Union's law enforcement agency, to re-issue its warning that paying ransoms fuels hackers and often leads to more organised crime. One US-based company, Coveware, specialises in negotiating ransoms between hackers and their victims. Visiting its offices in Connecticut, it's clear it operates at the sharp end of cyber-crime. There is no permanent office, instead people move around shared workspaces. The entire team is dispersed around the world. Coveware's Bill Siegel says ransomware attacks can destroy a company Chief executive and founder Bill Siegel admits that the service is an "unpalatable" one, but insists that it is needed. He wouldn't give details on the companies that he's helped but says: "At any one time we have half a dozen to a dozen cases, some of the companies are big, including public companies and name brands." The company's own research indicates that the hackers' demands, usually an exchange of untraceable Bitcoin, are increasing. "Ideally we wouldn't pay or we'd negotiate down a lot," says Mr Siegel, "but we recognise that when a company needs to pay - and it's a large number - then that's what needs to happen, and that can be seven figures. "Everybody recognises that this is not a good outcome but you're dealing with the life or death of a company." The most infamous ransomware virus was called WannaCry and infected 200,000 computers in at least 150 countries, including causing notable disruption to the National Health Service in the UK. Since then ransomware attack numbers have actually declined significantly. Cyber Security vendor Trend Micro estimates that numbers could have dropped 91% in the past year. But data from many other vendors points to a rise in more targeted attacks, where companies and organisations, instead of individuals, are in the cross-hairs. Norsk Hydro's Jo De Vliegher says "it's a very bad idea to pay" Researchers at cyber-security company Malwarebytes say that compared to the same time last year, business detections of ransomware have risen more than 500%. Back at Norsk Hydro, Mr De Vliegher said he tries not to think of the hackers and takes no satisfaction in knowing he foiled their plans. "I think in general it's a very bad idea to pay," he says. "It fuels an industry and it's probably financing other sorts of crime. It goes against our company values and we have good foundations and good people. "But I understand why, for some companies who are less secure, this can be the only option." His words are echoed by Europol's head of the European Cybercrime Centre, Steven Wilson. "Companies need to understand that if you continue to pay a ransom it perpetuates the crime," he says. "It encourages the criminals to commit further crimes. "If you pay, you're fuelling organised crime on a global basis."Nurseries sent first official cyber-attack warning By Sean Coughlan 15 March Nurseries and childminders are being warned of the threat of cyber-attacks, in guidance from the government's National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC). It is the first time that the agency - part of the GCHQ intelligence service - has given guidance to a sector caring for such young children. It includes warnings to use password protection for information for parents. "We know that incidents affecting the education sector are increasingly common," said Sarah Lyons at the NCSC. Bigger target The cyber-agency says pre-school providers and childminders are "increasingly relying on technology to operate" and have become an "appealing target" for cyber-attacks. Cyber-criminals could be seeking personal information about children or families, and to target the payments process for parents, warns the NCSC. The early years cyber-security advice warns about malicious software, so-called "malware", and the need to protect personal information and data. "Cyber-criminals will go after anybody, provided there's money to be made," says the NCSC's advice. The cyber-security agency calls for a more secure approach to sharing information, including newsletters for parents. "You should password protect newsletters so only families who have been given the password can open them," says the guidance. Scam emails The NCSC says many scam emails are "preying on fears of Covid-19" and warns nurseries and child minders to watch out for fake messages trying to obtain information with false claims, including: There are also warnings about protecting computer devices, including smartphones, and to guard against scam phone calls and text messages. Education at all age groups has become a significant target for cyber-attacks. A big multi-site further education college, the South and City College Birmingham, has been forced to close by a "major ransomware attack" - with the college telling students to stay home this week . Universities faced a wave of cyber-attacks last autumn, targeting research and data and causing disruption to computer systems. The NCSC is now widening its advice to the early years sector. Sarah Lyons, deputy director for economy and society engagement at the NCSC, said across educational settings it was "vital that all providers know how to secure their devices and sensitive data". But she said many people in early years "work on their own, without dedicated IT support". "This guidance sets out the practical first steps they can take to protect themselves from cyber-incidents." "Like most professions, the early years sector is increasingly reliant on technology, and this new guidance will support them with protecting sensitive data," said Vicky Ford, children and families minister. "It is paramount that early years settings have robust cyber-security in place to help them communicate with children, families and staff delivering early education and childcare provision safely," she said.Huge aluminium plants hit by 'severe' ransomware attack 19 March 2019 Hydro employs more than 35,000 people One of the world's biggest aluminium producers has switched to manual operations at some smelting plants following a "severe" ransomware attack. Hydro, which employs more than 35,000 people in 40 countries, says the attack began on Monday night and is ongoing. Some of the company's factories have been forced to halt production though other facilities, including its power plants, are functioning normally. The firm's website is down but updates are being posted to Facebook . US factories were among those affected, as were smelting plants in Norway. Notices have been posted at the entrances to some of Hydro's offices telling employees not to log in to their computers. Staff worldwide are instead using mobile phones and tablets to access their emails, according to Hydro's chief financial officer Eivind Kallevik. At some factories, workers are using printed order lists while they remain unable to retrieve order data from their computers. Norwegian security authorities said they were investigating the possibility that the cyber-attack was caused by a relatively new form of ransomware known as LockerGoga. However, they added it was not yet clear that this was the case. A spokesman for Hydro also told the BBC that he could not yet confirm who was behind the attack. Hydro's main public-facing website is currently offline He added that digital systems at Hydro's main smelting plants were programmed to ensure machinery worked efficiently. However, these systems had had to be turned off at some of the facilities. "They are much more reliant today on computerised systems than they were some years ago," a spokesman said. "But they have the option of reverting back to methods that are not as computerised, so we are able to continue production." Work was also stopped at some metal extrusion plants, where aluminium is processed into products such as building facades. Relying on back-ups The firm said it was working to contain and "neutralise" the attack and added that it had not caused any safety-related incidents. It added that it had data backups ready with which to restore systems once the virus had been dealt with. Norway's state cyber-security agency is helping Hydro to respond to the incident. Cyber-security expert Kevin Beaumont told the BBC that if the LockerGoga ransomware had been used, it would likely have been deployed to Hydro's systems manually by an attacker. This could have been done by someone who had gained administrator access to those systems. "For an industrial manufacturing business this is potentially bad news, as it may have spread across their company, including near industrial control systems," added Mr Beaumont.Cyber criminals publish more than 4,000 stolen Sepa files 22 January Cyber criminals who stole thousands of digital files belonging to environmental regulator Sepa have published them on the internet. The public body had about 1.2GB of data stolen from its digital systems on Christmas Eve . Sepa rejected a ransom demand for the attack, which has been claimed by the international Conti ransomware group. Contracts, strategy documents and databases are among the 4,000 files released. The data has been put on the dark web - a part of the internet associated with criminality and only accessible through specialised software. Sepa chief executive Terry A'Hearn said: "We've been clear that we won't use public finance to pay serious and organised criminals intent on disrupting public services and extorting public funds. "We have made our legal obligations and duty of care on the sensitive handling of data a high priority and, following Police Scotland advice, are confirming that data stolen has been illegally published online. "We're working quickly with multi-agency partners to recover and analyse data then, as identifications are confirmed, contact and support affected organisations and individuals." The attack locked Sepa's emails and contacts centre but Sepa said "priority regulatory, monitoring, flood forecasting and warning services were continuing to adapt and operate". Sepa said the theft was the equivalent to a fraction of the contents of an average laptop hard drive. Sepa chief executive Terry A'Hearn said the organisation had faced a "significant and sophisticated cyber-attack" Some of the information stolen was already publicly available but other files included data about staff and suppliers was not. Where information has been identified to date, staff have been contacted and are being supported. 'Serve as a warning to future victims' Brett Callow, of cyber security company Emsisoft, has been tracking the Sepa ransomware attack. He said: "Conti may well be the work of the same people behind another type of ransomware called Ryuk. "There are similarities in the code, ransom note and attack mechanisms. "When the complete haul of data is posted like this, it usually means the group has given up hope of being able to extract payment from the victim of monetise the data in other ways. "It's a loss for them. At this point, they've lost all leverage and the action is intended to serve as a warning to future victims." Det Insp Michael McCullagh, of Police Scotland's cybercrime investigations unit, said: "This remains an ongoing investigation. "Inquiries remain at an early stage and continue to progress including deployment of specialist cybercrime resources to support this response." The authorities will be pleased. It looks like Sepa decided not to play ball with the cyber criminals. Ransomware is a scourge that is costing organisations billions of pounds and every time a victim pays, it fuels further attacks. Sadly for Sepa this is far from over. By the looks of the stash of files that the hackers stole and encrypted, Sepa will have months of work ahead to try to recover important documents and spreadsheets from backups and rebuild their records. It's also telling that, according to the hackers website, almost 1,000 people have so far looked at the documents. Who knows what other criminals or hackers are poring over the files right now. Making the documents open to all means that information can be extracted to potentially be used against Sepa in further attacks or extortion attempts. It will be months, perhaps even years until the organisation can say it is safe once more and can put this cyber attack behind it.Ransomware cyber-attacks are targeting large companies and demanding huge payments A Norwegian aluminium producer is recovering after hackers took 22,000 computers offline at 170 different sites around the world. Norsk Hydro refused to cave in to the cyber-criminal's demands for money and have spent £45m trying to restore their business to full strength. The attack comes as evidence grows that hackers are getting paid off in secret by large organisations who want an easy way out. Cyber-security reporter Joe Tidy reports. 24 June 2019 BBC News TechnologyHealth to be on cyber-security's front line in 2021 Gordon Corera @gordoncorera 28 December 2020 Covid-19 catapulted the health sector to the forefront of cyber-security in 2020, but the next year is likely to see the dangers continue and evolve. Threats from nation states and criminals to the health system are a growing concern. The huge logistical challenge of rolling out vaccines faces the risk of disruption to complex supply chains. And criminal ransomware poses a threat at a time when the pandemic has increased our reliance on technology. Supply chain The distribution of the various coronavirus vaccines may bring relief, but it also brings with it a major challenge: many of those involved have not had to think hard about security in the past. The complex global supply chain for vaccines ranges from factories in one country to internet-connected fridges in another. It will create new pressure on doctors' surgeries, IT systems, and sometimes small providers who play a critical role. IBM has already said it has seen suspected state-hackers target the "cold chain" used to keep supplies at the right temperature during transportation. And in the UK, the National Cyber Security Centre, which worked quickly when the pandemic began to secure vaccine research, has since pivoted its efforts towards vaccine distribution. At least the large pharmaceutical companies are no stranger to cyber-espionage. Their security officials say they first began thinking hard about the issue after a major espionage campaign back in Spring 2010. But the issues around the pandemic have changed the sector's importance. "We are now on a grander stage," is how one person involved puts it. In July, the UK accused Russian intelligence of targeting research, including for the Oxford vaccine, while the US accused Chinese hackers of similar activity. The emergence of "vaccine nationalism" led intelligence and security officials to raise questions about whether countries could try and undermine the efforts of others going forward. "It could be trying to steal the intellectual property for financial purposes," Tonya Ugoretz of the FBI told a recent Aspen Institute Cyber Summit. "It could be to undermine confidence... or to advantage another country's own development. "We see our most determined nation-state adversaries not just relying on one method to target the supply chain, but combining cyber with using more traditional espionage and human sources." One much discussed tactic is the deliberate spread of misinformation online about vaccinations, or questioning a country's safety and testing record. The UK Army's 77th Brigade has supported a Cabinet Office investigation into whether foreign states are driving anti-vaccine fears within the UK. Most sentiment was domestically generated, head of Strategic Command General Sir Patrick Sanders said at a recent Chatham House event. General Sir Patrick Sanders is the head of Strategic Command, which helps manage joint force operations And he raised the possibility of retaliation. "Where these things are being fuelled from overseas, then we will take action, and if the NCF (National Cyber Force) has a part to play in that, it will." Cyber-blackmail campaigns But despite concerns about states, experts say, criminal ransomware - the locking of people out of their computers and data until they pay - remains the more serious and persistent threat. There was some talk at the start of pandemic from criminal gangs that they would not target health. But it did not last and attacks have multiplied. A recent report from security firm Positive Technologies says half of all the cyber-attacks on healthcare were ransomware in the July-to-September quarter of 2020. US hospitals have been worse hit than the UK. It is thought this is because criminals see them as richer than their NHS counterparts. In just 24 hours in October, six American hospitals received ransom demands of at least $1m (£810,000), leading to some cancer treatments being cancelled. Ransomware gangs often take a copy of the data they leave scrambled on their targets' computers "The healthcare sector has become such a big, rich, juicy target," Greg Garcia, executive director for the US Cybersecurity of the Health Sector Co-ordinating Council, recently said. "It's as if they moved on from the financial services sector." The UK has made stride to fix weaknesses in the NHS systems exposed by 2017's Wannacry ransomware attack. Even so, there are concerns it could be hit again. Dr Saif Abed has long warned that such an attack could kill a patient. He is a former NHS doctor who left clinical practice to set up the AbedGraham group, which advises on IT security risks to health. "The thing that's really concerning is that attackers now understand the concept of clinical urgency," he says. "They understand: 'If we create a risk that disrupts the ability to provide patient care, we're more likely to get a payout.'" His worry is that the pandemic has accelerated the digitisation of health. While that has brought benefits such as consultations taking place online, he says the investment needed to keep internet-connected systems and devices secure has not kept pace. Dr Abed says he often hears security researchers talk about hacking insulin pumps to kill someone. But he says a bigger risk is the fact that more devices are being connected together while remaining vulnerable, leading to the risk of a cascade effect. He adds that his biggest worry is that criminals move from just locking organisations out of their health data to starting to tamper with it, posing risks to patient safety. The desire to limit further Covid-19 outbreaks may also create a further drive to share data more broadly. And that in turn may present further opportunities to steal or subvert it. Another sign that the cyber-security of health is likely to be on the front line in 2021.Covid fraud: £34.5m stolen in pandemic scams By Dan Simmons & Matt Quinton 24 March WATCH: Police raid the home of a vaccine-text fraudster More than 6,000 cases of Covid-related fraud and cyber-crime have been recorded by the UK's police forces during the pandemic. The Action Fraud team said £34.5m had been stolen since 1 March 2020. It covers activity in England, Wales and Northern Ireland, but not Scotland. In a related development, the National Cyber Security Centre has told the BBC it is tackling about 30 "significant attacks" a month against the country's pandemic response infrastructure. These involves attempts to breach the NHS, vaccine producers and vaccine supply chains, among other organisations. "There unfortunately have been a number of successful ransomware incidents against businesses - I can think of roughly around 10," NCSC operations director Paul Chichester said. This is one of the scripts used to con victims to believe they were talking to their bank Twin peaks Other figures disclosed by City of London Police, which co-ordinates efforts to combat fraud, include: The activity peaked between April and May 2020, and January 2021 - both times when lockdowns were in force. The Dedicated Card and Payment Crime Unit, which tackles criminal gangs responsible for financial fraud and scams, worked with social media platforms to take down over 700 accounts linked to fraudulent activity in 2020, of which over 250 were money mule recruiters. But this may be the tip of the iceberg. The National Crime Agency estimates that just one in five fraud cases are typically reported to the police. And the volunteer-run Cyber Helpline told the BBC only a quarter of those who had contacted it after a cyber-attack said they had also reported the incident to the police. Bank loan scam Many of the scams involved conning people out of their money and financial details by focusing on internet shopping. Related fraud was 42% higher over the pandemic than the preceding year, as criminals took advantage of the fact many physical stores had been forced to close. Anna - not her real name - from Cheltenham was one of thousands of people who received an SMS message asking her to go online and rearrange a parcel delivery. She filled in her details, but later suspected something was wrong. She alerted her bank and cancelled her bank card. Anna came close to being thousands of pounds out of pocket "I thought, now I have nothing to worry about, everything is fine and case closed," she told the BBC. But the criminals used the details they had already obtained to authorise her bank to credit her account with a £9,000 loan. And a short while later they called her, pretending to be the bank. Not realising the scam, Anna told them she had not taken out a loan. "They gave me the sort code and bank account number I needed to pay back the loan, and said if I paid the £9,000 there wouldn't be any charges. "But then I was still feeling suspicious, so I Googled the sort code, and it came up with a completely different bank." So, Anna called her bank directly and realised the scammers had returned. "I didn't lose any money but it did feel like a real burglary to be honest," she said. She closed her account, and changed her email address and mobile number. But she still does not feel safe. Email attack Charities are also common targets. One in three charities suffered a cyber-attack during the first 10 months of the pandemic, according to Ecclesiastical Insurance. One victim actually specialises in offering cyber-security advice to others. Hackers got inside Charity Digital's network for seven days without being detected. They compromised its email accounts and sent false invoices to clients. The organisation's chief executive, Jonathan Chevallier, told the BBC the breach had not been noticed in part because all his staff had been working from home. Charity Digital spent more than £10,000 investigating the attack and has produced an online webinar to help others avoid a similar fate. Fake tech support Another popular type of cyber-fraud involved romance scams, in which people looking for relationships via the net often get fooled into sending money to prospective partners, who prey on their emotions. This type of crime was 20% more common over the past year than the one before. Fraudsters sometimes use "Sim farms" to send texts - this unit holds eight cards to quickly send multiple messages at once City of London Police also said key workers had also been specifically targeted. In one case, a man was arrested on suspicion of using social media to advertise bogus car insurance policies to NHS workers. The pandemic appears, however, to have coincided with a fall in one type of cyber-crime. Reported cases of computer software service fraud - in which criminals call offering fake tech support to fool victims into sharing their payment card details and other credentials - dropped by 15.5%.Arran Brewery hit by ransomware attack 20 September 2018 A Scottish brewery has warned other firms to stay alert after it fell victim to a ransomware attack. Arran Brewery said it was locked out of its own computer system after being duped into opening an email attachment that contained a virus. According to the firm, the culprits then demanded two bitcoins, worth a total of £9,600, to restore its system. Arran said it declined to pay, despite losing three months' worth of sales data from one server. The company added that it had since used an IT consultant to eliminate the virus, and it was working on restoring the lost data. What is ransomware? Ransomware involves computer viruses that threaten to delete your files unless you pay a ransom. Like other viruses, it usually finds its way onto a device by exploiting a security hole in vulnerable software or by tricking somebody into installing it. Arran Brewery managing director Gerald Michaluk described the attack as "very devious". He said: "We advertise job vacancies on our website. One such job vacancy was for a credit control and finance assistant post, now filled. "Out of the blue we started getting applicants for the post from all over the country and the world. "I assumed one of my colleagues had advertised the post. However, this was not the case; the attackers had taken our website vacancy and posted it on some international jobs site. "We were getting three of four emails a day, all with attached CVs. The virus was in amongst the genuine job seekers, and when the CV was opened it took effect." He added: "I hope if anyone finds themselves in a similar position they can recognise the MO of these bandits and not have the same issues we have had." 'Don't pay ransom' Gerry Grant, chief ethical hacker at the Scottish Business Resilience Centre, said ransomware remained a popular "attack vector" for criminals. He said: "It can be very difficult to verify every single email that comes in but you should be suspicious about attachments from people you don't know or are not expecting. "My advice to people is that they should not pay any ransom because there is no guarantee that those responsible won't ask you for more money even if you pay up. "The best course of action is to contact the police and alert them to an attack. "Firms should also make sure they have a plan in place if it happens so they don't run about in a panic." 'Potentially devastating' Ch Insp Scott Tees, of Police Scotland's cyber crime prevention team, said: "Ransomware attacks can be very sophisticated and potentially devastating for individuals and small businesses. "We would advise every computer user to ensure they're running the latest versions of security software, have their data backed up regularly to cloud services or devices not connected to their computer. "Be extremely vigilant about opening any unsolicited email and visiting websites you are not familiar with. "There is a lot of help available online including Police Scotland's website and www.getsafeonline.org ."San Diego port hit by ransomware attack 28 September 2018 The Port of San Diego oversees 34 miles of coastline along the bay San Diego's port operator has been caught out by ransomware. The Port released a statement saying the malware had infiltrated its computer network and was disrupting administration systems. It said the attack had not stopped ships or boats using the port, or put members of the public in danger. The FBI and Department of Homeland Security are helping the Port investigate and clean up in the wake of the outbreak. "This is mainly an administrative issue and normal Port operations are continuing as usual," Randa Coniglio, chief executive of the port, said in a statement . The main impact would be on the issuing of park permits, public records requests and general business services, it added. The Port said some of the disruption was because of staff shutting down computers that were in danger of being compromised as the ransomware started to spread. The organisation did not say which malware was used in the attack but added that payment was being demanded in Bitcoins by the hackers behind the outbreak. The Port is just one of many shipping-related industries that have been hit by ransomware. In July, the China Ocean Shipping Company's terminal in Long Beach was briefly closed by a malware attack. Last year, shipping giant Maersk was among the high profile victims of the NotPetya virus and said its business was affected for a couple of weeks. It has said the outbreak cost the company about $200m (£153m).Chinese shipping firm infected by ransomware 26 July 2018 The ransomware meant Cosco staff could not send email messages Chinese shipping firm Cosco has been caught out by Windows ransomware. The infection has knocked out some electronic communications at several of its North American locations. In a statement, it said a "local network breakdown" had hit its American region. It said it had isolated the offices as it investigated. China Ocean Shipping is China's largest carrier of containerised goods and the fourth largest of these maritime operators in the world. 'Operating normally' Cosco's US website plus email and many phone lines were all reportedly rendered inoperable by the outbreak. Instead of using its own communications system. the infection forced Cosco staff to use Twitter and free Yahoo email addresses to handle queries. It is not clear which variant of Windows malware has hit the company. It told local media in Long Beach that problems at the company, including in its customer service centre, had been caused by the ransomware. On its Facebook page, Cosco gave few details of the infection. It added: "So far, all vessels of our company are operating normally, and our main business operation systems are stable." It said that despite the problems it was still doing business in America and expected to make a "full and quick recovery". Last year, shipping giant Maersk suffered a series of problems when it was infected by the Wannacry ransomware. Cleaning up required the firm to shut its facilities at the Port of Los Angeles for three days.NHS ransomware attack response criticised 17 April 2018 WannaCry was the biggest cyber-attack to have affected the NHS The government and NHS bodies have been criticised by MPs for failing to implement measures to improve cyber-security nearly a year after a major ransomware attack on the service. Twenty-two recommendations were made after the WannaCry attack led to nearly 20,000 cancelled hospital appointments. The Public Accounts Committee said it was "alarming" these measures had still not been introduced. The government said cyber-security in the NHS had improved since the attack. The PAC report found the Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC) and NHS bodies had been "unprepared" for the global WannaCry attack, which happened in May and affected more than 200,000 computers in at least 100 countries. 'Serious vulnerabilities' A total of 80 of 236 NHS trusts across England suffered disruption, as well as another 603 NHS organisations, including 595 GP practices. MPs said the attack could have been "much worse" and the NHS had been "lucky" the threat had been tackled quickly. But they warned future attacks could be more sophisticated and malicious, "resulting in the theft or compromise of patient data". In February, the DHSC, NHS England and NHS Improvement published a set of 22 "lessons learned" recommendations following the cyber-attack. But months later the DHSC still did not know what the proposals would cost or when they would be implemented, the committee said. Meg Hillier, who chairs the PAC, said: "The extensive disruption caused by WannaCry laid bare serious vulnerabilities in the cyber-security and response plans of the NHS. "But the impact on patients and the service more generally could have been far worse. And government must waste no time in preparing for future cyber-attacks - something it admits are now a fact of life. "It is therefore alarming that, nearly a year on from WannaCry, plans to implement the lessons learned are still to be agreed." The report said cyber-attacks were "weapons" that needed to be treated as a "serious, critical threat". It said the use of a nerve agent to poison former spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia in Salisbury had "heightened concerns about the UK's ability to respond to international threats, and hammers home the risks from those hostile to the UK". The report said: "A cyber-attack is a weapon which can have a huge impact on safety and security. "It needs to be treated as a serious, critical threat. "The rest of government could also learn important lessons from WannaCry." Among other recommendations, the committee called on the DHSC and NHS bodies to urgently agree on and implement cyber-security plans and provide an update on their progress to the committee in June. A Department of Health and Social Care spokesman said: "Every part of the NHS must be clear that it has learned the lessons of Wannacry. "The health service has improved its cyber-security since the attack, but there is more work to do to protect data and patient care. "We have supported that work by investing over £60m to address key cyber-security weaknesses - and plan to spend a further £150m over the next two years to improve resilience, including setting up a new National Secure Operations Centre to boost our ability to prevent, detect and respond to incidents." A previous report by the National Audit Office found NHS trusts had been left vulnerable during the attack because cyber-security recommendations had not been followed.Ransomware tops malicious attack charts 10 April 2018 The global success of the Wannacry ransomware has encouraged more attackers to use it Ransomware has become the most popular form of malware used in cyber-attacks, suggests a study. Almost 40% of all successful malware-based attacks involved ransomware suggests the annual Verizon data breach investigations report . The types of systems compromised were changing too, it found, with criminals trying to hit databases not just PCs. It also indicated firms had significant success dealing with some types of cyber-attacks. They had particular success in dealing with attempts to knock web servers offline and spotting phishing emails, Small firms "Ransomware breaches doubled last year and could double again this year," said Gabe Bassett, senior information security scientist at Verizon who helped compile and write the report. Once ransomware infects a machine it encrypts data until a payment, usually in the form of a popular cryptocurrency, is made. Mr Bassett said ransomware was popular because it let cyber-thieves quickly cash in on the security mistakes made by firms both large and small. Desktop machines were most likely to be compromised by ransomware, found the report, but attackers had started turning their attention to more critical business systems. "We are seeing more and more databases hit as attackers find these systems online and encrypt them," said Mr Bassett, adding that the numbers of such attacks trebled last year. He said these were attractive targets because companies were more likely to pay a high ransom to unlock the business-critical data. Online databases were being sought out by malicious attackers Bill Conner, chief executive at security firm SonicWall said the high-profile WannaCry and NotPetya ransomware attacks in 2017 were behind the growing popularity of the category. And, he added, it was now starting to hit a very "target rich" segment. "Ransomware is really the first time that medium and small companies have been targeted," he said. "But they are least prepared because they have the least money and they cannot go out and hire cyber-experts." Small steps Ransomware was just one common attack among many in the arsenal of cyber-thieves, said Mr Bassett. Other popular attacks include: Despite the relentless tide of attacks, the report also found that companies were enjoying success when fighting off some cyber-threats, said Mr Bassett. Firms were now much less likely to fall victim to phishing and so-called Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attacks. DDoS involves swamping a server with traffic so it becomes unresponsive or crashes. "We know how to deal with DDoS," said Mr Bassett. "We have defences against them and they work." Statistics in the report suggest server downtime caused by DDoS often only lasts a few minutes. In addition, he said, many companies had got better at dealing with phishing by quarantining the machines of those staff who were most likely to click on a malicious link or document. And, added Mr Bassett, while cyber-attackers put billions of malicious files on the net every year, the number that got through to firms was often quite small. On average, found the Verizon survey, firms received about seven pieces of malware a day. "That's a threat we can handle," said Mr Bassett. "The reality is that there's a lot that we can do. We can take some simple steps and make it much harder for attackers."Ransomware hits Atlanta police dashcam footage 7 June 2018 Atlanta City Council president Felicia Moore said the attack hit about one-third of its systems Years of video evidence gathered by police has been lost thanks to a ransomware attack on Atlanta in the US. Most of the lost evidence involves dashcam recordings, said Atlanta police chief Erika Shields in a local newspaper interview. The footage was "lost and cannot be recovered", said Ms Shields. About one-third of all software used by city agencies and departments is believed to have been affected by the attack, which took place in March. Recovery plan Details of the damage done to Atlanta's computer infrastructure emerged during a public meeting held to debate how the city should spend its budget. The hearings revealed that the city has assigned an extra $9.5m (£7.1m) to finance its recovery efforts. At the meeting, officials from the city administration revealed that the attack was more severe than originally thought. More than 140 separate applications were totally or partially disabled by the attack, said Daphne Rackley who heads Atlanta's IT department. About 30% of the affected programs were "mission critical" as they were used by either the police or its courts, she said. The municipal courts in Atlanta were shut for several weeks during the height of the attack and huge amounts of legal documents stretching back decades are believed to have been scrambled by the malware. Police chief Shields told the Atlanta Journal Constitution that despite losing the video recordings, no "crucial evidence" had been compromised. Dashcam footage was a "useful tool" said Ms Shields, but added that other evidence such as the testimony of an officer would "make or break" a case. Files on individual officers' computers were also hit in the attack, although much of this data was backed up elsewhere, she said, so was not entirely lost. The hackers behind the infection, known as SamSam, encrypted key data and demanded $51,000 of bitcoins to unlock it. Atlanta said it had not paid the ransom.Cyber criminals demand ransom to unlock Sepa systems 14 January The environmental regulator Sepa says criminals are demanding a ransom to unlock its digital systems which have been subjected to a cyber attack since Christmas Eve. It said international groups were likely to be behind the ransomware attack that has locked its emails and contacts centre. More than 1GB of data has been stolen, including information about staff. Police Scotland and the National Cyber Security Centre are investigating. Cyber security specialists have identified the theft of about 1.2 GB of data with indications suggesting that at least 4,000 files may have been accessed and stolen. The company's internal communications have also been locked but but Sepa said "priority regulatory, monitoring, flood forecasting and warning services were continuing to adapt and operate". Sepa (Scottish Environment Protection Agency) said a number of systems, including email, would remain badly affected for some time and it was likely that new systems would have to be built from scratch. Information submitted to Sepa by email since Christmas Eve is not currently accessible. This has been an incredibly sophisticated attack on Scotland's environmental regulator which has locked their IT systems and crippled them now for three weeks. We know that the cyber criminals have been in touch demanding money but it seems unlikely they will succeed. There's no suggestion climate change activism is at the heart of this ransomware attack, even though it's the environmental regulator being targeted. The hack has all the hallmarks of Russian organised cyber criminals - although Sepa will not confirm that. Critical services like flood forecasting are unaffected but entire systems will have to be rebuilt and it's unlikely the 1,300 workers will be able to get access to their old emails and online files. The agency confirmed last week that following the attack at 00:01 on Christmas Eve, business continuity arrangements were immediately enacted and the agency's emergency management team was working with Scottish government, Police Scotland and the National Cyber Security Centre to respond to "complex and sophisticated criminality". Sepa's chief executive Terry A'Hearn said: "Partners have confirmed that Sepa remains subject to an ongoing ransomware attack likely to be by international serious and organised cyber-crime groups intent on disrupting public services and extorting public funds. "Work continues by cyber security specialists to seek to identify what the stolen data was. Whilst we don't know and may never know the full detail of the 1.2 GB of information stolen, what we know is that early indications suggest that the theft of information related to a number of business areas. "Some of the information stolen will have been publicly available, whilst some will not have been." Specialist services He said direct contact would be made as quickly as possible with affected organisations. Mr A'Hearn added that staff members affected were being supported and given access to specialist advice and services. Det Insp Michael McCullagh, of Police Scotland's cybercrime investigations unit, said: "This remains an ongoing investigation. Police Scotland are working closely with Sepa and our partners at Scottish government and the wider UK law enforcement community to investigate and provide support in response to this incident. "Inquiries remain at an early stage and continue to progress including deployment of specialist cybercrime resources to support this response. "It would be inappropriate to provide more specific detail of investigations at this time."Ransomware infects Ukraine energy ministry website 24 April 2018 Hackers have used a ransomware cyber-attack to compromise a Ukranian government website Hackers have used ransomware to take the website of Ukraine's energy ministry offline and encrypt its files. The website currently contains a message written in English, demanding a ransom of 0.1 bitcoin - worth $927.86 (£664.98) by today's exchange rate. Ukranian cyber-police spokeswoman Yulia Kvitko said the attack is an "isolated incident" and no other government websites have been affected. She added that the energy ministry's email system was still up and running. "This case is not large-scale. If necessary, we are ready to react and help," said Ms Kvitko. "Our specialists are working right now... We do not know how long it will take to resolve the issue." Hacker 'opportunists' According to cyber-security research firm AlienVault, the hackers behind this cyber-attack have previously compromised other websites, but they have only made about £100 from their efforts. AlienVault believes the energy ministry website has been attacked by two different hackers - the first hacker, who signs his name "X-zakaria" at the bottom of the webpage, merely defaced the website. The security firm believes that a second hacker then came along, encrypted the website's files, and added a ransomware screen and payment details. "What has probably happened here is that a hacktivist has hacked the site for fun, then the criminal ransomware attacker has used their backdoor, which you can see at the bottom of the page, to try and make some money," AlienVault security researcher Chris Doman told the BBC. He said that it was likely that these hackers were amateurs, rather than nation state attackers. "It's certainly true that attacks against Ukraine have impersonated ransomware before , to cover their true aim of pure destruction, and in many cases, energy companies such as this have been a prime target," said Mr Doman. "However, in this case the evidence points to something more mundane."Hackers threaten to leak plastic surgery pictures By Joe Tidy 24 December 2020 Hackers have stolen the data of a large cosmetic surgery chain and are threatening to publish patients' before and after photos, among other details. The Hospital Group, which has a long list of celebrity endorsements, has confirmed the ransomware attack. It said it had informed the Information Commissioner of the breach. On its darknet webpage, the hacker group known as REvil said the "intimate photos of customers" were "not a completely pleasant sight". It claimed to have obtained more than 900 gigabytes of patient photographs. The Hospital Group, which is also known as the Transform Hospital Group, claims to be the UK's leading specialist weight loss and cosmetic surgery group. It has 11 clinics specialising in bariatric weight loss surgery, breast enlargements, nipple corrections and nose adjustments. The company has previously promoted itself via celebrity endorsements, although it has not done so for several years. Former Big Brother contestant Aisleyne Horgan-Wallace told Zoo magazine about her breast enhancement surgery with The Hospital Group in 2009. Atomic Kitten singer Kerry Katona, Shameless actress Tina Malone and reality TV star Joey Essex from The Only Way is Essex are also previous patients who have endorsed the clinic. 'Splattered around' The Hospital Group said in a statement: "We can confirm that our IT systems have been subject to a data security breach. None of our patients' payment card details have been compromised but at this stage, we understand that some of our patients' personal data may have been accessed." The company said it had emailed all its customers about the cyber-attack and would contact individuals who might have had more personal details compromised. It's understood that many before and after pictures will not include the patients' faces. One customer told the BBC he was worried about his pictures and data being in the hackers' hands. Simon Hails had chest reduction surgery with The Hospital Group. He said the company had not told him about the ransom. "I have had an email from The Hospital Group informing me of a 'data security incident' but no detail as to what has been hacked," he told the BBC. "I'm obviously concerned as the last thing I want is 'before photos' being splattered around in the public domain. I've tried to keep my surgery private and not even some of my friends and colleagues know about it, so the data breach is concerning for me." Ransomware is one of the most prolific forms of cyber-attack. It typically involves hackers gaining access to a computer network and either encrypting files or locking users out of their systems until a ransom is paid. More recently, ransomware gangs have been taking a copy of the data and threatening to release it. Law-enforcement agencies discourage victims from paying the ransom because doing so fuels the criminal enterprises. Cyber-security company Emsisoft estimates that the burgeoning form of cyber-crime has earned criminals $25bn (£18bn) in 2020. REvil, also known as Sodinokibi, is one of the most prolific ransomware groups. Its high-profile victims include currency exchange Travelex and entertainment law firm Grubman Shire Meiselas & Sacks. In September, The Hospital Group said surgery requests had increased by 25% since 2019. Its chief executive Tony Veverka told the ITV News Tonight programme at the time that Covid-19 health concerns had prompted the spike, as people tried to find ways to lose weight.Cyber attack: Hackers post Hackney Council's 'stolen documents' 7 January Visitors to the council's website were greeted with this message in October A cyber criminal group has posted what it claims are documents stolen from Hackney Council in a ransomware attack. The publication on the dark web of the personal details of council staff and residents follows "a serious cyber-attack" on the council in October. Experts said the data was "limited" and "not visible through search engines". Officials continue to work with the UK National Cyber Security Centre and National Crime Agency to investigate the hack, the council said. Hackney Council's cabinet member for planning, Guy Nicholson, said the hack had affected services residents relied on, including by disrupting the ability of the council to process land search requests for those buying property. Many residents have complained on social media about how the disruption has cost them financially and derailed house purchases. Jessica told the BBC the hack broke the chain on her and many other people's house purchases. She told the BBC: "It's extremely frustrating as the hack has ruined our plans and cost us money that we'll never get back. The sale of our property fell through because our buyer wasn't able to carry out a search on our house so couldn't get a mortgage. "Subsequently we lost the house we were planning on buying and had already spent more than £1,000 on a survey for. "We were hoping to have the house sorted in time to make use of the stamp duty holiday , but that's not looking likely." 'Worry and upset' The council said the vast majority of sensitive or personal information held by the council remained unaffected. It added that it would support any directly affected people. Hackney's mayor Philip Glanville said the hack was "utterly deplorable". "I fully understand and share the concern of residents and staff about any risk to their personal data, and we are working as quickly as possible with our partners to assess the data and take action, including informing people who are affected," he said. "While we believe this publication will not directly affect the vast majority of Hackney's residents and businesses, we are sorry for the worry and upset this will cause them. "We are already working closely with the police and other partners to assess any immediate actions we need to take, and will share further information about the additional action we will be taking as soon as we can." In February last year, another local authority - Redcar and Cleveland Borough Council - was hit by a ransomware attack, which cost it more than £10m. This attack has caused real-world harm to residents. The fact that people are out of pocket and have had life plans derailed because of a lack of land searches is a side effect to councils being hacked that few could have predicted. The authority isn't saying much, including whether or not they have negotiated with hackers or paid a ransom. Now that the hackers are posting data from their attack on the dark web, it appears we can deduce that they have not got what they wanted. But we don't know for sure, and this hacker group is notorious for posting or selling data even after promising victims they wouldn't. Ransomware experts at cyber security firm Emsisoft also tell me that the group, known as Mespinoza, are famously very amateurish. Even if Hackney Council did pay, I'm told the data would likely be far too damaged and scrambled to recover.Technology explained: what is ransomware? Computer viruses that threaten to delete your files unless you pay a ransom are known as ransomware. Security experts have warned that ransomware is the fastest growing form of computer virus. Like other computer viruses, it usually finds its way onto a device by exploiting a security hole in vulnerable software or by tricking somebody into installing it. BBC Technology reporter Zoe Kleinman explains what ransomware does. Video journalist: Chris Fox 27 October 2017 BBC News TechnologyGlobal ransomware attack causes turmoil 28 June 2017 Many reports suggest that screens around the world are getting this message, indicating a ransomware attack is to blame. Companies across the globe are reporting that they have been struck by a major ransomware cyber-attack. British advertising agency WPP is among those to say its IT systems have been disrupted as a consequence. The virus, the source of which is not yet known, freezes the user's computer and demands an untraceable ransom be paid in the digital Bitcoin currency. Ukrainian firms, including the state power company and Kiev's main airport, were among the first to report issues. The Chernobyl nuclear power plant has also had to monitor radiation levels manually after its Windows-based sensors were shut down. Interpol involvement In a statement, the US National Security Council said government agencies were investigating the attack and that the US was "determined to hold those responsible accountable". The US Department of Homeland Security advised victims not to pay the ransom, saying there was no guarantee that access to files would be restored. The Russian anti-virus firm Kaspersky Lab said its analysis showed that there had been about 2,000 attacks - most in Ukraine, Russia and Poland. Technology explained: what is ransomware? The international police organisation Interpol has said it was "closely monitoring" the situation and liaising with its member countries. Experts suggest the malware is taking advantage of the same weaknesses used by the WannaCry attack last month. "It initially appeared to be a variant of a piece of ransomware that emerged last year," said computer scientist Prof Alan Woodward. "The ransomware was called Petya and the updated version Petrwrap. "However, now that's not so clear." Kaspersky Lab reported that it believed the malware was a "new ransomware that has not been seen before" despite its resemblance to Petya. As a result, the firm has dubbed it NotPetya . Kaspersky added that it had detected suspected attacks in Poland, Italy, Germany, France and the US in addition to the UK, Russia and Ukraine. Andrei Barysevich, a spokesman for security firm Recorded Future, told the BBC such attacks would not stop because cyber-thieves found them too lucrative. "A South Korean hosting firm just paid $1m to get their data back and that's a huge incentive," he said. "It's the biggest incentive you could offer to a cyber-criminal." A bitcoin wallet associated with the outbreak has received several payments since the outbreak began. The wallet currently holds just over 3.5 bitcoins (£6,775; $8,670). An email address associated with the blackmail attempt has been blocked by German independent email provider Posteo. It means that the blackmailers have not been able to access the mailbox. Problems have also affected: The attacks come two months after another global ransomware assault, known as WannaCry, which caused major problems for the UK's National Health Service. Veteran security expert Chris Wysopal from Veracode said the malware seemed to be spreading via some of the same Windows code loopholes exploited by WannaCry. Many firms did not patch those holes because WannaCry was tackled so quickly, he added. The UK's National Crime Agency is investigating the threat Those being caught out were also industrial firms that often struggled to apply software patches quickly. "These organisations typically have a challenge patching all of their machines because so many systems cannot have down time," he said. "Airports also have this challenge." Copies of the virus have been submitted to online testing systems that check if security software, particularly anti-virus systems, were able to spot and stop it. "Only two vendors were able to detect it so many systems are defenceless if they are unpatched and relying on anti-virus," he said. Ukraine seems to have been particularly badly hit this time round. Reports suggest that the Kiev metro system has stopped accepting payment cards while several chains of petrol stations have suspended operations. Ukraine's deputy prime minister has tweeted a picture appearing to show government systems have been affected. His caption reads: "Ta-daaa! Network is down at the Cabinet of Minister's secretariat." Get news from the BBC in your inbox, each weekday morningCapcom hack: Up to 350,000 people's information stolen 16 November 2020 Capcom is best known for franchises such as Street Fighter Video-game-maker Capcom has warned a ransomware attack might have compromised gamers' personal information. Up to 350,000 people could be affected , it said, and some of its own financial information had been stolen. The Japanese developer is best known for franchises such as Resident Evil, Street Fighter, and Monster Hunter. A week-and-a-half earlier, it had said there was no indication customer information had been accessed. Digitally scrambled But in an update on Monday, Capcom confirmed its servers had been hit by an attack on 2 November. Ransomware is malicious software that typically threatens to block a victim's access to their own records unless a blackmail payment is made. In this case, the attackers digitally scrambled some of the data on Capcom's servers, making it impossible to view or amend, and destroyed some files outright. The Ragnar Locker hacker group had then demanded to be paid to undo the encryption involved, Capcom said. On Ragnor Locker's dark-net webpage, the hackers didn't just post Capcom's data but also an ominous message. In broken English they wrote the Japanese company didn't "make a right decision and save data from leakage". This - and the fact Capcom is openly talking about the hack - suggests the company chose not to pay the cyber-criminals' extortion demand. Many, including law enforcement, would actually see this as absolutely the right decision. For 18 months, police the world over have been desperately imploring ransomware victims not to pay hackers. The groups have made millions from companies, which often feel they have no other option but to fork out. But it seems Capcom has found a way through without yielding. No doubt the incident has affected the firm's reputation and some sensitive data is already surfacing online. But reading the disappointment in Ragnor Locker's statement is refreshing and rare. So far, Capcom has confirmed only nine people's personal information was definitely compromised, all current or former employees. But up to 350,000 customers, business partners, and other employees might also be affected, it said. Although, it could not be sure because its own logs had been "lost as a result of the attack". The information includes different combinations of names, addresses, birthdays, phone numbers and email addresses, depending on why the data was gathered. For example, some was from Japanese customer support and some from the American Capcom store or e-sports operation. 'Deepest apologies' "None of the at-risk data contains credit-card information," Capcom's statement said. "All online transactions... are handled by a third-party service provider. "And as such, Capcom does not maintain any such information internally." The company also said it was safe for gamers to continue to play its games online and to use its websites. Police have been notified, as have the Japanese and UK data-protection watchdogs. "Capcom would once again like to reiterate its deepest apologies for any complications or concerns caused by this incident," it said. "As a company that handles digital content, it is regarding this incident with the utmost seriousness."Hangry and ransomware added to Oxford English Dictionary 30 January 2018 New OED addition hangry means bad-tempered or irritable as a result of hunger Mansplaining, ransomware and hangry are among more than 1,000 words that have been added to the latest Oxford English Dictionary (OED). Also included are initialisms used on the online parenting forum Mumsnet such as TTC - meaning trying to conceive. OED senior editor Fi Mooring said the words chosen will resonate "even with people who are not parents". The dictionary consults experts to determine what should be added to its 829,000 words. The OED is updated four times a year with the next update due in April 2018. What's new? Mansplaining is defined as explaining something "needlessly, overbearingly, or condescendingly, especially to a woman, in a manner thought to reveal a patronising or chauvinistic attitude". Researchers date early usage of that term to an internet exchange between a man and a woman in 2008. Although hangry has only come into common usage recently the word dates back to 1956 when it appeared in a psychoanalytic journal. The OED defines the new term snowflake as a description of someone who is "overly sensitive or as feeling entitled to special treatment or consideration". Ransomware is another new addition - less than a year since the NHS was one of a number of global institutions targeted by the WannaCry cyber attack that was carried out with the use of malicious software. Chaebol is formed by combining the Korean words chae, meaning wealth, and bol, meaning faction and, in South Korea, means a large business conglomerate. However, recently the word has been used to describe a luxurious lifestyle associated with families who own such businesses. Jay-Z in the Oxford English Dictionary The new list sees American rapper Jay-Z get his sixth OED citation with the word swag being added to the dictionary. Swag, derived from the word swagger, describes a bold, self-confident manner and appeared in Jay-Z's Black Album: "My self-esteem went through the roof, man. I got my swag." Here are some of his other citations: "My hand around her collar, feeding her cheese." Cheese is American slang for money. "We stand for hours waiting for bricks of government cheese." Government cheese is a colloquial term for welfare benefits. "We grow up knowing people who pay for everything with little plastic cards—Medicare cards for checkups, EBT cards for food." EBT stands for electronic benefits transfer - a system of paying out benefits with a card used in the US. "Thirty minutes straight off the top of his head, never losing the beat, riding the handclaps." Handclaps is the sound made by the clapping of hands. "The school of hard knocks - I'm from the school of the hard knocks; we must not Let outsiders violate our blocks." The school of hard knocks is used to describe the experience of a life of hardship as an education.Ransomware behind NHS Lanarkshire cyber-attack 28 August 2017 Services at major sites such as Wishaw General Hospital were disrupted by the cyber-attack It has been confirmed that ransomware was behind a cyber-attack on a Scottish health board which led to some appointments and procedures being cancelled. NHS Lanarkshire said it was a new variant of Bitpaymer that infected its network on Friday. The board said staff worked over the weekend to reinstate IT systems. Work is ongoing to establish how the malware was able to infiltrate the network without being detected. The cyber-attack started on Friday . Operations were cancelled and the work of GPs was disrupted. Analysis from Zoe Kleinman, technology reporter, BBC News Ransomware is a particularly destructive form of malware that catastrophically struck the NHS earlier this year. While this new infection is not the notorious Wannacry variation, which caused global chaos, it is yet another demonstration of how disruptive ransomware can be. What it does is encrypt the data it finds on a host computer so that it can no longer be accessed, and then demands payment, often in Bitcoin, for its release. Experts recommend resorting to back-up files rather than paying the ransom itself as there's no guarantee that the criminals behind it will keep to their word - but there are many examples of cases where individuals and organisations have chosen to part with their cash. Most malware travels via phishing emails - something that looks like it's from a trusted source and asks the recipient to click a link. It only takes a moment of being caught off-guard to be taken in. The best defence is to keep software updated and use anti-virus protection but it can be difficult for large organisations like the NHS to implement this en-masse, when complicated, life-saving equipment is running off a network that may not adjust well to even minor tweaks. NHS Lanarkshire chief executive Calum Campbell said: "We quickly identified the source of the malware and investigations are ongoing as to how this was able to infiltrate our network. "Our staff have worked hard to minimise the impact on patients and our contingency plans have ensured we have been able to continue to deliver services while the IT issues were resolved. A small number of systems were affected with the majority restored over the weekend and the remainder on Monday." "Unfortunately a small number of procedures and appointments were cancelled as a result of the incident. I would like to apologise to anyone who has been affected by this disruption. We immediately started work to reappoint patients to the earliest possible appointments." Technology explained: what is ransomware? The health board said it was working with its IT security providers to establish how the malware had infiltrated the network. A spokesman added: "Our security software and systems were up to date with the latest signature files, but as this was a new malware variant the latest security software was unable to detect it. "Following analysis of the malware our security providers issued an updated signature so that this variant can now be detected and blocked." NHS Lanarkshire was one of the worst-hit health authorities in Scotland in the widespread cyber-attacks in May .Cyber attack targets Norwich-based Flagship Group 5 November 2020 Flagship Group has experienced an IT systems data breach Customer and staff data has been "compromised" in a security breach of a social housing provider's IT system. Flagship Group, based in Norwich, said the cyber attack on 1 November took "most of our group's systems offline". It said the incident had been caused by a suspected phishing or ransomware attack. It said it had closed down its online systems while it was investigated, and had reported the breach to police and the Information Commissioner's Office. On its website it said: "Despite our quick action, there has been some data encryption and some personal customer and staff data has been compromised. "We do not yet have a complete picture of all the data that has been encrypted." The company also said it had "a high level of security measures" in place to protect data. Flagship Group owns some 31,000 homes in the East of England and employs 1,200 people in its facilities, repairs, maintenance and heating departments. In 2017-18, it had an annual turnover of £133.7m It has tenants in Norfolk, Suffolk, Cambridge and Essex and also builds and sells houses to private owners. 'Considerable disruption' Chief executive David McQuade apologised to tenants affected by the breach and those experiencing delays in having repairs carried out. "We are now working towards the recovery of all our systems," he said. "The incident has caused considerable disruption to our staff and customer services and we are concentrating on emergency situations, to ensure our customers are safe." The firm said the matter had also been reported to the Regulator of Social Housing. Norfolk Police said it was being dealt with by the National Cyber Security Centre . The Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) confirmed it had been informed. Find BBC News: East of England on Facebook , Instagram and Twitter . If you have a story suggestion email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.ukEmotet botnet taken down by international police swoop 27 January Police have seized thousands of computers running one of the most dangerous hacking networks worldwide. The Emotet network obtains access to victims' computers, via malicious email attachments, then sells it to criminals who install more dangerous malware. Police from the UK, EU, US and Canada worked together to "disrupt" Emotet. Europol called it "one of most significant botnets of the past decade" and one of the main " door openers " for computer systems worldwide. "Once this unauthorised access was established, these were sold to other top-level criminal groups to deploy further illicit activities such data theft and extortion through ransomware," it said. Bye-bye botnets👋 Huge global operation brings down the world's most dangerous malware. Investigators have taken control of the Emotet botnet, the most resilient malware in the wild. Get the full story: https://t.co/NMrBqmhMIf  pic.twitter.com/K28A6ixxuM — Europol (@Europol) January 27, 2021 View original tweet on Twitter Dmitry Smilyanets, from Recorded Future, said: "Even if the creator and his support and operators are not arrested, they likely will not try to rebuild. "They have enough cash to retire in peace - or start a new criminal adventure. "A working botnet is a very complicated and gentle system. "If more than a half of the infrastructure is not working, it's safe to say bye-bye." 'Enable Macros' Emotet was initially a banking trojan, designed to spy on victims' computers and steal login details. Victims would receive an apparently important Word document marked for their attention. When opened, it would ask them to "enable Macros" - a seemingly innocent feature built into Microsoft Word that actually opened their computer up to attackers. Lotem Finkelstein, of Check Point Software, said it had been tracking Emotet for years. "The most successful and prevalent malware of 2020 by a long way", he said, it had, over the course of the year, sent phishing emails with more than 150,000 different subject lines and 100,000 file names for the attachments. "It constantly adjusted its phishing emails to victims' interests and global events - for example, the Covid-19 pandemic or major shopping seasons such as Black Friday," Mr Finkelstein said. And although the Europol announcement may seem "abstract", it would protect "the public from cyber-threats that have caused losses of millions, if not more, of dollars".NHS 'could have prevented' WannaCry ransomware attack 27 October 2017 Comments WannaCry was the biggest cyber-attack that has affected the NHS to date NHS trusts were left vulnerable in a major ransomware attack in May because cyber-security recommendations were not followed, a government report has said. More than a third of trusts in England were disrupted by the WannaCry ransomware, according to the National Audit Office (NAO). At least 6,900 NHS appointments were cancelled as a result of the attack. NHS England said no patient data had been compromised or stolen and praised the staff response. The NAO chief said the Department of Health and the NHS must now "get their act together". WannaCry, which spread to more than 150 countries in a worldwide ransomware outbreak beginning on 12 May, was the biggest cyber-attack to have hit the NHS to date. The malware encrypted data on infected computers and demanded a ransom roughly equivalent to £230 ($300). The NAO report said there was no evidence that any NHS organisation paid the ransom - but the financial cost of the incident remained unknown. An assessment of 88 out of 236 trusts by NHS Digital before the attack found that none passed the required cyber-security standards. As a result of disruption caused by WannaCry, patients were turned away from appointments The report said NHS trusts had not acted on critical alerts from NHS Digital and a warning from the Department of Health and the Cabinet Office in 2014 to patch or migrate away from vulnerable older software. The Department of Health also lacked important information, the report said. "Before 12 May 2017, the department had no formal mechanism for assessing whether NHS organisations had complied with its advice and guidance." Organisations could also have better managed their computers' firewalls - but in many cases they did not, it said. NHS organisations have not reported any cases of harm to patients or of their data being stolen as a result of WannaCry. NHS England has identified 6,912 appointments - including operations - that were cancelled as a direct result of the ransomware. But it estimated that about 19,000 appointments in total may have been affected. Technology explained: what is ransomware? Cases included at least 139 people potentially with cancer, who had urgent referrals cancelled. It is not known: The NAO credits the widely reported work of cyber-security researcher Marcus Hutchins, who accidentally helped to stop the spread of WannaCry. His "kill switch" involved registering a domain name linked to the malware, which deactivated the program's ability to spread automatically. LISTEN: How 'Malware Tech' became an 'accidental hero' Home Office Minister Ben Wallace told BBC Radio 4's Today programme that the government was "as sure as possible" that North Korea was behind the attack. "This attack, we believe quite strongly that it came from a foreign state," he said. "It is widely believed in the community and across a number of countries that North Korea [took on] this role". Speaking on the same programme, former chairman of NHS Digital, Kingsley Manning, said that a failure to upgrade old computer systems at a local level within the NHS had contributed to the rapid spread of the malware. He said: "The problem with cyber security for the NHS is [that] it has a particular vulnerability... It's very interconnected so if you get an attack in one place it tends to spread." Mr Manning blamed a lack of time and resources but also "frankly a lack of focus, a lack of taking it seriously" for individual NHS organisations' failure to keep up with cyber-security improvements. "This was an extremely unsophisticated attack," he added. The NAO said the NHS "has accepted that there are lessons to learn" from WannaCry and will now develop a response plan. It will also ensure that critical cyber-security updates - such as applying software patches - are carried out by IT staff, the NAO said. WannaCry was "a relatively unsophisticated attack and could have been prevented by the NHS following basic IT security best practice," said Sir Amyas Morse, comptroller and auditor-general of the NAO. "There are more sophisticated cyber-threats out there than WannaCry so the Department and the NHS need to get their act together to ensure the NHS is better protected against future attacks." Keith McNeil, NHS chief clinical information officer for health and care, said: "As the NAO report makes clear, no harm was caused to patients and there were no incidents of patient data being compromised or stolen. "Tried and tested emergency plans were activated quickly and our hard-working NHS staff went the extra mile to provide patient care, keeping the impact on NHS services and patients to a minimum." Analysis - by Rory Cellan-Jones, technology correspondent For many executives, a serious cyber-attack is now very high on their list of risks to their organisations and a priority for disaster planning. So what is most shocking in this report is the lack of planning at a local level in the NHS for such an event. To be fair, the Department of Health had developed a plan - it was just that it had not been properly communicated or tested in the NHS trusts. When disaster struck, nobody seemed to know who was in charge or what to do. Of course, all of this could have been avoided if security patches had been applied to protect the Windows 7 systems common throughout the NHS. Once again, there had been warnings sent out by NHS Digital, but many trusts failed to act upon them - though in that they were no different from many organisations around the world that were also hit. In one way, the NHS was lucky - if, instead of a Friday in May, the attack had taken place on a Monday in winter, with a week's appointments affected, the damage would have been far worse. Cyber-security experts will tell you that dealing with attacks like these is mostly a management rather than a technology problem. And in this case the NHS proved itself incapable of managing a speedy and effective response to its first major cyber-security crisis.'Bad Rabbit' ransomware strikes Ukraine and Russia 24 October 2017 Two other ransomware outbreaks have made headlines this year - WannaCry and Petya A new strain of ransomware nicknamed "Bad Rabbit" has been found spreading in Russia, Ukraine and elsewhere. The malware has affected systems at three Russian websites, an airport in Ukraine and an underground railway in the capital city, Kiev. The cyber-police chief in Ukraine confirmed to the Reuters news agency that Bad Rabbit was the ransomware in question. It bears similarities to the WannaCry and Petya outbreaks earlier this year. However, it is not yet known how far this new malware will be able to spread. "In some of the companies, the work has been completely paralysed - servers and workstations are encrypted," head of Russian cyber-security firm Group-IB, Ilya Sachkov, told the TASS news agency. Two of the affected sites are Interfax and Fontanka.ru. Meanwhile, US officials said they had "received multiple reports of Bad Rabbit ransomware infections in many countries around the world". The US computer emergency readiness team said it "discourages individuals and organisations from paying the ransom, as this does not guarantee that access will be restored". Who was affected? By Ksenia Idrisova and Yaroslava Kiryukhina, BBC Monitoring Initial news reports mentioned Russian media websites, such as St Petersburg-based Fontanka.ru, as well as an airport in Ukraine's Odessa and a subway system in Kiev. Privately-owned Russian news agency Interfax was hit particularly hard, to the extent that 24 hours later its website still displayed a message reading "our service is temporary unavailable". On the morning of 25 October, it transpired that Russian banks had also been targeted but, luckily, were not compromised. The Russian Central Bank said in a statement that it had recorded a BadRabbit attack on Russian financial institutions, but that none of them had been compromised, as reported by RNS news agency on 25 October. Otkrytiye, formerly Russia's biggest privately-owned bank, was one of the Russian financial institutions that repelled the attack, according to RNS. Prominent Russian IT security firm Group-IB reported that BadRabbit had targeted several of the top 20 Russian banks but failed to penetrate their networks. Russia hit most "According to our data, most of the victims targeted by these attacks are located in Russia," said Vyacheslav Zakorzhevsky at Kaspersky Lab. "We have also seen similar but fewer attacks in Ukraine, Turkey and Germany." Bad Rabbit encrypts the contents of a computer and asks for a payment - in this case 0.05 bitcoins, or about $280 (£213). Cyber-security firms, including Russia-based Kaspersky, have said they are monitoring the attack. Technology explained: what is ransomware? The malware is still undetected by the majority of anti-virus programs, according to analysis by virus checking site Virus Total . One security firm, Eset, has said that the malware was distributed via a bogus Adobe Flash update. Researcher Kevin Beaumont has posted a screenshot that shows Bad Rabbit creating tasks in Windows named after the dragons Drogon and Rhaegal in TV series Game of Thrones. The outbreak bears similarities to the WannaCry and Petya ransomware outbreaks that spread around the world causing widespread disruption earlier this year.The dangers of 'ransomware' Thousands are having their computers encrypted by ransomware. 28 November 2016 BBC News TechnologyMillions paid to ransomware hackers They know we'll pay for our files. 28 November 2016 BBC News UKTop university under 'ransomware' cyber-attack By Sean Coughlan 15 June 2017 University College London says it faced a "widespread ransomware attack" University College London, one of the world's leading universities, has been hit by a major cyber-attack. The university describes it as a "ransomware" attack, such as last month's cyber-attack which threatened NHS computer systems. The attack was continuing on Thursday, with access to online networks being restricted. The university has warned staff and students of the risk of data loss and "very substantial disruption". University College London (UCL) is a "centre of excellence in cyber-security research", a status awarded by the GCHQ intelligence and monitoring service. The central London university, ranked last week in the world's top 10, says that a "widespread ransomware attack" began on Wednesday. It was first blamed on so-called "phishing" emails, with links to destructive software. But later the university suggested it was more likely to be from contact with a "compromised" website, where clicking on a pop-up page might have spread a malware infection. NHS attack Ransomware attacks are where computer systems are locked and threatened with damaging software unless payments are made. Students and staff were warned that "ransomware damages files on your computer and on shared drives where you save files" and were told not to open any suspicious attachments. The university says that it believes the risk of further infection has been contained, but it is urging staff and students to help with efforts to reduce any "further spread of this malware". Universities, which often carry out commercially sensitive research, have become frequent targets for cyber-attacks. "However, what makes this attack interesting is the timing," said Graham Rymer, an ethical hacker and research associate at the University of Cambridge. "Hackers tend to target people who will be desperate to get access to their data and are, therefore, more likely to pay the ransom. "Currently there are a lot of students who will be putting the final touches to their dissertations, so it could be that they were the targets." Mr Rymer said UCL seemed to have responded well to the attack and had "locked it down pretty well". "One thing UCL did is to quickly switch all drives in the system to "read-only" following the attack, which essentially prevented the malware from doing real damage." Mr Rymer said UCL may not have been the only intended target as he had seen other businesses facing the same malware. Last month, the National Health Service in England and Scotland was subject to a significant ransomware cyber-attack , as part of a global wave of attacks.Watch what happens when ransomware hits An ethical hacking expert shows the BBC what happens when the WannaCry ransomware hits a PC. Colin McLean, from Abertay University, carried out the demonstration in an offline environment. The computer malware is thought to have spread to 150 countries after it began to take control of users' files on Friday, demanding $300 (£230) to restore access. 15 May 2017 BBC News ScotlandRansomware cyber-attack threat escalating - Europol 14 May 2017 How to protect yourself online Friday's cyber-attack has affected more than 200,000 victims in 150 countries, Europol chief Rob Wainwright says. He told the BBC the act was "unprecedented in its scale" and warned more people could find themselves affected on Monday morning. The virus took control of users' files, demanding payments; Russia and the UK were among the worst-hit countries. Experts say another attack could be imminent and have warned people to ensure their security is up to date. Mr Wainwright said that the ransomware - software that blocks access to data until a ransom is paid - was combined with a worm application - a program that replicates itself in order to spread to other computers. This, he said, was allowing the "infection of one computer to quickly spread across the networks". He added: "That's why we're seeing these numbers increasing all the time." 'Patch before Monday' Although a temporary fix earlier slowed the infection rate, the attackers had now released a new version of the ransomware, he said. Companies need to make sure they have updated their systems and "patched where they should" before staff arrived for work on Monday morning, the EU law enforcement agency head said. In England, 48 National Health Service (NHS) trusts reported problems at hospitals, GP surgeries or pharmacies, and 13 NHS organisations in Scotland were also affected. Europol director Rob Wainwright warned that companies must patch their systems before Monday morning What occurred was an "indiscriminate attack across the world on multiple industries and services", Mr Wainwright said, including Germany's rail network Deutsche Bahn, Spanish telecommunications operator Telefonica, US logistics giant FedEx and Russia's interior ministry. However, he said that so far "remarkably" few payments had been made by victims of the attack. BBC analysis of three accounts linked with the global attack suggests the hackers have been paid the equivalent of £22,080. The Europol chief said his agency was working with the US Federal Bureau of Investigation to find those responsible, and that more than one person was likely to be involved. The virus exploits a vulnerability in Microsoft Windows software, first identified by the US National Security Agency, experts have said. After taking computers over, it displayed messages demanding a payment of $300 (£230) in virtual currency Bitcoin to unlock files and return them to the user. Microsoft released security updates last month to address the vulnerability, with another patch released on Friday . The UK security researcher known as "MalwareTech", who helped to limit the ransomware attack, predicted "another one coming... quite likely on Monday". MalwareTech, who wants to remain anonymous, was hailed as an "accidental hero" after registering a domain name to track the spread of the virus, which actually ended up halting it. The 22-year-old told the BBC it was very important for people to patch their systems as soon as possible.WannaCry ransomware bitcoins move from online wallets 3 August 2017 The WannaCry ransomware infected computers around the world More than $140,000 (£105,000) worth of bitcoins paid by victims of the WannaCry ransomware outbreak have been removed from their online wallets. It has been nearly three months since infections struck organisations worldwide, including the NHS, which faced days of disruption as a result. The bitcoin activity was noticed by a Twitter bot set up by Quartz journalist Keith Collins. The balance of all wallets known to be associated with WannaCry is now zero. The ransomware hit many businesses hard, quickly infecting multiple computers on corporate networks and encrypting them so they became useless. Victims were asked to pay between $300 and $600 to get their systems back. Back in May, many cyber-security experts and law enforcement agencies advised victims that paying the ransom would probably only encourage other cyber-criminals and not result in restored access to computers. However, many clearly decided to take a chance. Technology explained: what is ransomware? According to bitcoin-monitoring company Elliptic, an initial portion of the WannaCry funds were moved in late July . And at about 04:10 BST on Thursday, the vast majority were finally withdrawn in entirety. Many watchers expect that the WannaCry bitcoins will be put through a "mixer" - in which the currency is transferred and mixed into a larger series of payments that make it much harder to track where it ends up. But the incident has left some cyber-security experts confused. "I have no idea why they would move that money to be honest," said Andy Patel at F-Secure. "I wouldn't imagine that they are going to try and turn those bitcoins into real money. If they do, it's going to give someone a way to track them to an actual person." Instead, Mr Patel told the BBC the funds could be used to pay for dark web services that might leave less of a digital paper trail. In July, bitcoins paid as ransom following a separate attack - NotPetya - were moved from their online wallets. Analysis By Alan Woodward, cyber-security adviser to Europol Many people assume Bitcoin is anonymous: the online equivalent of cash. However, every transaction is completely visible to anyone who cares to look. There are even online sites that allow you to view what is happening in the blockchain - the distributed ledger that records all bitcoin movements. The blockchain is more like a Swiss bank account: you know the account number and which account transfers money to which other accounts, but you don't necessarily know who stands behind that account number. A technique called "cluster analysis" looks across all of these bitcoin addresses and attempts to find addresses that are being used by the same people. Then, some of the other transactions in that cluster, which were not intended to be anonymous, can provide evidence of who owns those addresses. Law enforcement agencies often use this classic approach to track criminals - the idea, of course, is: "Follow the money." Alan Woodward is professor of cyber-security at the University of Surrey. Get news from the BBC in your inbox, each weekday morningRansomware 'here to stay', warns Google study By Mark Ward 27 July 2017 Comments Ransomware now regularly makes more than $1m (£761,500) a month for its creators, found Google Cyber-thieves have made at least $25m (£19m) from ransomware in the last two years, suggests research by Google. The search giant created thousands of virtual victims of ransomware to expose the payment ecosystem surrounding the malware type. Most of the money was made in 2016 as gangs realised how lucrative it was, revealed a talk at Black Hat. Two types of ransomware made most of the money, it said, but other variants are starting to emerge. Track and trace "It's become a very, very profitable market and is here to stay," said Elie Bursztein from Google who, along with colleagues Kylie McRoberts and Luca Invernizzi, carried out the research. Ransomware is malicious software that infects a machine and then encrypts or scrambles files so they can no longer be used or read. The files are only decrypted when a victim pays a ransom. Payments typically have to be made using the Bitcoin virtual currency. Mr Bursztein said Google used several different methods to work out how much cash was flowing towards ransomware creators. As well as drawing on reports from people who had paid a ransom, it sought out the files used to infect machines and then ran those on lots of virtual machines to generate "synthetic victims", he said. Cyber-hacks season: It then monitored the network traffic generated by these victims to work out to where money would be transferred. The data gathered in this stage was also used to find more variants of ransomware and the 300,000 files it found broke down into 34 of them, he said. The most popular strains were the Locky and Cerber families, added Mr Bursztein. Payment analysis of the Bitcoin blockchain, which logs all transactions made using the e-currency, revealed that those two strains also made the most money over the last year, he said, with Locky collecting about $7.8m (£5.9m) and Cerber $6.9m (£5.2m). The research project also revealed where the cash flowed and accumulated in the Bitcoin network and where it was converted back into cash. More than 95% of Bitcoin payments for ransomware  were cashed out via Russia's BTC-e exchange, found Google. On 26 July, one of the founders of BTC-e, Alexander Vinnik, was arrested by Greek police on money laundering charges. The police were acting on a US warrant and his extradition to America is being sought. The gangs behind the ransomware explosion were not likely to stop soon, said Mr Bursztein, although established strains are facing competition from newer ones. "Ransomware is a fast-moving market," he said. "There's aggressive competition coming from variants such as SamSam and Spora." Novel variants were expanding quickly and many were encouraging fast expansion by paying affiliates more if they placed the malware on to large numbers of machines. The ransomware as a service model was already proving popular, he warned. "It's no longer a game reserved for tech-savvy criminals," he said. "It's for almost anyone." This week BBC News is taking a close look at all aspects of cyber-security. The coverage is timed to coincide with the two biggest shows in the security calendar - Black Hat and Def Con. Follow all our coverage via this linkiPhone users fooled by fake ransomware 29 March 2017 Apple has issued an iPhone software update after reports of fake ransomware attacks where money was demanded in order to unlock the handset's browser. A pop-up screen accused the phone owner of accessing illegal pornography or pirating music and could not be removed. However the ransomware was fake - and clearing the browser cache was actually enough to restore full access. It ran on JavaScript, a code commonly employed by many websites. The attackers demanded £100 in the form of an iTunes gift card with the code sent via text message to a designated mobile number, said security firm Lookout in a blog about the malware. "...the attack doesn't actually encrypt any data and hold it ransom," wrote its security researchers . "Its purpose is to scare the victim into paying to unlock the browser before he realizes he doesn't have to pay the ransom to recover data or access the browser." The patch closed the loophole but Professor Alan Woodward, cybersecurity expert at Surrey University said some iPhone users have put off the update because it also includes other changes to the running of the device. "Some people have held off thinking it sounds fairly major, but obviously if they do that they won't get the protection," he said. "There is this feeling that iOS [Apple's operating system] and Apple devices in general are less vulnerable. "This shines a light on the fact that nothing is invulnerable. JavaSript is cross-platform and it's a matter of how you manage it."WannaCry ransomware cyber-attack: Your questions answered 16 May 2017 After a cyber-attack disrupted IT services across the globe, many people have written to the BBC with questions about why it happened, how you can protect your computers and smartphones, and if the attackers will be caught. BBC Technology reporter Chris Foxx and security expert Prof Alan Woodward provide some answers. WannaCry ransomware cyber-attacks slow but fears remain Why doesn't the NHS used a closed secure network, like the military? "Practically speaking, it's not possible to completely isolate the NHS network," said cyber-security expert Prof Alan Woodward. "The NHS sends emails to patients who have email addresses outside of the NHS network. "People in the NHS also use the internet heavily for research, just like academics." Even a private network can be compromised, especially in an organisation with thousands of people using it daily. "Once [a virus] has managed to enter the larger network, it can then use vulnerabilities to spread," said Prof Woodward. Will banks and personal finances be affected? Since serving customers online is now part of banks' bread and butter, you would expect cyber-security to be at the very top of their priorities. Cyber-security is a game of cat and mouse, with criminals always thinking of new ways to attack systems, so no organisation is totally impenetrable. This ransomware outbreak is mostly likely to affect your finances if you get infected and pay the ransom, which security experts say you should not do. There is absolutely no guarantee the criminals would give your files back. If you run a business, there is detailed guidance on the National Cyber Security Centre website you can follow to make sure your company is protected. How can I personally protect my device from ransomware? Microsoft has already identified the way this specific strain of ransomware spread from device to device, and has issued a issued a fix . As long as your operating system is up-to-date, you should be protected from this strain of ransomware. Always make sure you are running the latest version of your operating system with the latest security fixes installed - and run up-to-date anti-virus software from a trusted company. Although this strain of ransomware was not spread by email, always beware suspicious emails asking you to click links or download attachments. Criminals will often use a widely publicised virus outbreak to send scam emails, pretending to offer help. To prevent heartbreak, if the worst comes to the worst you should keep a backup copy of important files, photos and videos on an external hard drive. Make sure to disconnect the drive from your computer after making your backup, so ransomware can't access it if your computer is infected. "The bottom line is that all you can really do is keep your software, including your virus checker, up to date. Ideally have updates set to automatic," said Prof Woodward. Why are the attackers doing this? The purpose of a ransomware attack is to extort money from victims. It is a powerful attack because people may fear losing their documents and photographs and so may be more likely to pay. When it hits businesses and hospitals, there is extra pressure to get rid of the ransomware quickly. The government has said the ransomware outbreak at the NHS was not a targeted attack on the UK's health service. It may be that the attackers created their virus without knowing exactly how far it would spread. Do you have to open an email attachment to be infected? No. This strain of ransomware was spread from device to device by taking advantage of an old security hole in some versions of Microsoft's Windows operating system. The hole is fixed in the latest versions of Windows. However, ransomware can be spread in rogue email attachments, so do not click links or open attachments in unsolicited emails. "Practice ABC - assume nothing, believe no-one, check everything," says Prof Woodward. Are there potential cyber-attacks that can affect other operating systems? Yes, every operating system could theoretically be attacked. Criminals tend to target systems such as Windows or the Android mobile operating system, because they are more widely used, increasing the chance of people falling victim. Will the people behind the ransomware be caught? In the same way that a burglar breaking into a home can cover their tracks, cyber-criminals can go to great lengths to hide their identity. However, many cyber-criminals have been caught and brought to justice - and the UK's National Crime Agency, Europol and the FBI are already investigating. Other times BBC journalists have answered your questions:Ransomware and the NHS - the inquest begins Rory Cellan-Jones @BBCRoryCJ 15 May 2017 Comments We now know that Friday's ransomware attack was a global cybercrime, hitting organisations ranging from the Russian Interior Ministry to the delivery firm Fedex. But the most serious impact was here in the UK on the National Health Service. So what made our hospitals so vulnerable? There are plenty of theories - among them that far too many computers in hospitals were running Windows XP. Microsoft stopped supporting this now quite ancient operating system back in 2014, leaving it vulnerable to attacks (although the company took the unusual step over the weekend of rushing out a patch to deal with the Wannacry threat). The government warned NHS trusts in 2014 that they needed to move away from XP as rapidly as possible. A letter from the Cabinet Office told them there would be some temporary help with security for old equipment until April 2015, but after that they were on their own. "It is therefore essential that all NHS organisations put in place robust plans to migrate away from Windows XP, Office 2003 and Exchange 2003 by that date if you have not already done so," the letter said. But did they? At the end of last year the software firm Citrix said that a Freedom of Information request had revealed that 90% of hospitals still had machines running on Windows XP. Now, while that is extremely worrying, it paints an exaggerated picture. IT professionals in the health service tell me that while many hospitals may have a few computers - or perhaps some key medical equipment - dependent on XP those devices would not usually be connected to the internet. They believe that the more likely explanation dates back to March this year when Microsoft issued a security update for its more recent versions of Windows. It was designed to deal with a vulnerability in something called Server Message Block, which is a protocol for sharing files across a network. We now know that Friday's attack made use of this vulnerability, so hospitals which did not apply that patch were leaving themselves open to attack. So why would they have failed to act? Well, many organisations take time to apply updates, wanting to be sure that there are no compatibility problems with other software applications. Hospitals often have a wide and somewhat chaotic collection of software, some of which will be very old but still seen as vital by those who use it. But Dr Joe McDonald, who runs what he describes as a network of geeky doctors and nurses, identifies some other issues. He explains that since the collapse of the disastrous NHS National Programme for IT there is no longer a centralised approach to things like updates - each trust goes its own way. He says his area is systematic about keeping systems up to date - but for others, cost is a big issue. "There is a real squeeze on spending - and IT security isn't seen as sexy compared to things like incubators and kidney machines," he says. The fact that so many Windows XP computers are still allowed in hospitals is a reflection of the low priority given to spending on robust IT. What we now need to understand is what those NHS organisations which were affected by the ransomware have in common, and how they differ from those which escaped unscathed. This attack does not appear to have been targeted at hospitals. In fact, security expert Professor Alan Woodward says it may have been an experiment by some relatively inexperienced hackers that took off in a way they didn't expect. But the NHS will now need to think long and hard about whether it can afford to make cybersecurity such a low priority.US charges three North Koreans over $1.3bn theft 17 February Kim Il, Park Jin Hyok, and Jon Chang Hyok Three North Koreans have been charged in the US over a scheme to steal and extort more than $1.3bn (£940m) from banks and businesses around the world. The three, who are not in custody, are also accused of deploying malicious cryptocurrency programs. A Canadian-American citizen was also charged with money laundering. The men are also accused of being part of the Wannacry cyber-attack of 2017, which crippled UK health service computer systems on a national scale. Announcing the charges, Assistant Attorney General for National Security, John Demers, said North Korea "has become a criminal syndicate with a flag". One of the defendants, Park Jin Hyok, was previously charged two years ago for his role in the 2014 hacking of Sony Entertainment Pictures . Mr Park, Jon Chang Hyok and Kim Il are accused of criminal conspiracy, conspiracy to commit wire fraud and bank fraud. The Department of Justice says the defendants work for the Reconnaissance General Bureau, North Korea's military intelligence agency. "North Korea's operatives, using keyboards rather than guns, stealing digital wallets of cryptocurrency instead of sacks of cash, are the world's leading bank robbers," Mr Demers said. All three men are believed to be in North Korea, which does not extradite its citizens to face US charges. The Canadian-American man, 37-year-old Ghaleb Alaumary, from Mississauga, Ontario, is accused of being the group's money launderer in a separate case announced on Wednesday. Officials say he has agreed to plead guilty to the charge Satirical source Sony Entertainment Picture's 2014 film, The Interview, is widely believed to have been the initial motive for the attack on the film company. The satirical film, starring Seth Rogen and James Franco, ridicules North Korean leader Kim Jong-un, and centres around a fictitious assassination plot against him. Ex-hacker Marc Maiffret spoke to the BBC in 2014 about the Sony attack The men are also believed to have had a hand in the WannaCry 2.0 ransomware attack in 2017. The attack temporarily crippled UK National Health Service (NHS) computer systems and affected more than 150 countries around the world. About 40 NHS organisations and some medical practices were hit, with operations and appointments cancelled. There are broadly three reasons why governments choose cyber-attacks to further their interests: to spy on each-other; to steal intellectual property; or to meddle in politics. This indictment adds further evidence to the theory that North Korea bucks the trend. The politically isolated country is actually far more interested in making money. As the assistant attorney general put it, North Korean hackers are "the world's leading bank robbers". Of all the major cyber powers, North Korea has time and time again used its considerable skills to prop up a struggling economy. It's working rather well, too - with well over $1bn in the bank from these hacks alone. While other nations cause chaos and political noise with their hackers, North Korea seems content to quietly continue lining its coffers. The three men hit by the indictment also conducted campaigns targeting US defence and energy contractors. As part of this, Department of State and Pentagon officials were tricked into sharing their credentials so hackers could access their computers. "The scope of the criminal conduct by the North Korean hackers was extensive and long-running and the range of crimes they have committed is staggering," Acting US Attorney Tracy Wilkison said. The UK's National Cyber Security Centre said it fully supported the criminal charges. "Working with our allies we are committed to countering malicious activity by state and non-state actors and will defend ourselves from disruptive behaviour in cyber-space," said the organisation's director for operations, Paul Chichester.US libraries hit by ransomware attack 24 January 2017 No ransom was paid to the library attackers Libraries across the city of St Louis are gradually regaining control of their computer systems, following a malware attack several days ago. Criminals broke into the systems of 17 libraries, disabled them and demanded a ransom. It meant people were unable to borrow books or use the computers. All services were being restored, said Waller McGuire, executive director of St Louis libraries, on Tuesday. No ransom has been paid to the attackers. According to Intel Security, ransomware attacks are rising in "alarming" numbers. Technical staff at the libraries across St Louis had been working "through the night and weekend" to regain access to the affected servers, using the library's back-up system to restore them, Mr McGuire said in a statement. Their first priority had been to restore the system that allowed books to be borrowed, which had now been done, he said. Mr McGuire said: "St Louis Public Library has been working with the FBI to identify how criminals broke into our system and correct the problem. "I apologise to patrons for any inconvenience this incident has caused: on most days thousands of St Louis Public Library patrons check out materials and use computers for many purposes. "The real victims of this criminal attack are the library's patrons." "An attempt to hold information and access to the world for ransom is deeply frightening and offensive to any public library, and we will make every effort to keep that world available to our patrons."Apple Mac computers targeted by ransomware and spyware By Mark Ward 13 June 2017 Apple Mac computers are being targeted by two types of malware being spread on the "dark web" Mac users are being warned about new variants of malware that have been created specifically to target Apple computers. One is ransomware that encrypts data and demands payment before files are released. The other is spyware that watches what users do and scoops up valuable information. Experts said they represented a threat because their creators were letting anyone use them for free. The two programs were uncovered by the security firms Fortinet and AlienVault, which found a portal on the Tor "dark web" network that acted as a shopfront for both. In a blog, Fortinet said the site claimed that the creators behind it were professional software engineers with "extensive experience" of creating working code. Those wishing to use either of the programs had been urged to get in touch and provide details of how they wanted the malware to be set up. The malware's creators had said that payments made by ransomware victims would be split between themselves and their customers. Researchers at Fortinet contacted the ransomware writers pretending they were interested in using the product and, soon afterwards, were sent a sample of the malware. Analysis revealed that it used much less sophisticated encryption than the many variants seen targeting Windows machines, said the firm. NHS computers were hit by a high-profile ransomware attack last month However, they added, any files scrambled with the ransomware would be completely lost because it did a very poor job of handling the decryption keys needed to restore data. "Even if it is far inferior to most current ransomware targeting Windows, it doesn't fail to encrypt victim's files or prevent access to important files, thereby causing real damage," wrote the researchers. The free Macspy spyware, offered via the same site, can log which keys are pressed, take screenshots and tap into a machine's microphone. In its analysis, AlienVault researcher Peter Ewane said the malicious code in the spyware tried hard to evade many of the standard ways security programs spot and stop such programs. Mr Ewane said Mac users needed to start being more vigilant as malware creators targeted them. "As OS X continues to grow in market share we can expect malware authors to invest greater amounts of time in producing malware for this platform." Statistics gathered by McAfee suggest that there are now about 450,000 malicious programs aimed at Macs - far fewer than the 23 million targeting Windows users. Technology explained: what is ransomware? Aamir Lakhani from Fortinet said Mac users should make sure their machines were kept up to date with the latest software patches and be wary of messages they receive via email. "Mac ransomware is definitely becoming bigger," he told EWeek . "Although market share is still small, hackers know that there is valuable data on the Mac." Apple declined to comment on the developments.NHS ransomware cyber-security hero: I was panicking The British cyber-security expert who defeated the Wannacry cyber-attack has revealed he briefly thought he might have helped it spread. The ransomware caused havoc in UK hospitals as well as striking dozens of other organisations across the globe last month. In an exclusive interview with BBC Horizon, Marcus Hutchins recalled how he halted the blackmailing malware in its tracks. UK-based viewers can see Horizon: Cyber Attack - The Day the NHS Stopped , on BBC Two at 21:00 BST this Monday. 12 June 2017 BBC News TechnologyWannaCry ransomware cyber-attacks slow but fears remain 15 May 2017 How to protect yourself online A computer malware that has spread across 150 countries appears to be slowing down, with few reports of fresh attacks globally on Monday. A spokesperson for police agency Europol said the situation in Europe "seems stable". In Asia, where many offices closed before the WannaCry ransomware struck on Friday, the attack has been less severe than expected. The ransomware takes over users' files, demanding $300 (£230) to restore them. The White House said on Monday that under $70,000 (£54,000) had been paid in total in a bid to get any locked data released. Payments could go up as the ransomware warned the cost would double after three days, and threatened to delete files within seven days if no payment was made. Computer giant Microsoft said the attack, which has affected hundreds of thousands of computers, should serve as a wake-up call. Among the organisations targeted worldwide have been Germany's rail network Deutsche Bahn, Spanish telecommunications operator Telefonica, US logistics giant FedEx and Russia's interior ministry. What was the situation on Monday? Many firms employed experts over the weekend to try to prevent new infections. Senior spokesman for Europol, Jan Op Gen Oorth, told the AFP news agency: "The number of victims appears not to have gone up and so far the situation seems stable in Europe, which is a success. "It seems that a lot of internet security guys over the weekend did their homework and ran the security software updates." UK Health Minister Jeremy Hunt confirmed to the BBC that UK intelligence services had found no evidence of a second wave of attacks on Monday. The badly affected National Health Service said seven out of 47 trusts that were hit were still facing serious issues. French carmaker Renault said its plant in the northern town of Douai would not reopen on Monday as it dealt with the cyber-attack. In Asia, the spread was reportedly slowing, with banking systems largely unaffected: US President Donald Trump's Homeland Security adviser Tom Bossert has also confirmed that no US federal government systems were affected. Who is behind the attack? This won't take long. Nobody knows. Europol's Jan Op Gen Oorth said: "A bit early to say... but we are working on a decrypting tool". Associated Press quoted Tim Wellsmore, of US security firm FireEye, as saying: "We expect this is a small operation... They just happened to hit the mother lode." Russian President Vladimir Putin said: "Russia has absolutely nothing to do with it." EU Commissioner for Security Julian King told the BBC on Monday that the EU was proposing legislation to reinforce cyber security in the wake of the attack. Some private sector security researchers say they have seen some similarities between some of the code in the recent attack and some linked to North Korea in the past. Security officials in the UK, however, say they have not seen anything they would regard as hard evidence, Gordon Corera, the BBC's security correspondent, reports. Should people pay? Companies in Asia and Europe have been warning employees to be careful when clicking on attachments and links in their emails. The message from the UK's National Crime Agency was "do not pay!" - there is no guarantee that systems will be restored. Michael Gazeley, of Network Box, a Hong Kong-based cyber-security firm, told Reuters there were still "many 'landmines' waiting in people's inboxes", adding that his firm had detected a new version that infected users directly via a malicious link on hacked websites. Technology explained: what is ransomware? Becky Pinkard, from Digital Shadows, a UK-based cyber-security firm, also said it would be easy for the initial attackers or "copy-cat authors" to change the virus code so it is difficult to guard against. A UK security researcher known as "MalwareTech", who helped to limit the ransomware attack, had predicted "another one coming... quite likely on Monday". MalwareTech, whose name was revealed in UK media to be 22-year-old Marcus Hutchins, was hailed as an "accidental hero" after registering a domain name to track the spread of the virus, which actually ended up halting it. What's behind Microsoft's 'wake-up call' warning? The computing giant says the tool used in this current attack had been developed by the US National Security Agency and was stolen by hackers. It is highly critical of the way governments store data on software vulnerabilities. A railway station system in Chemnitz, eastern Germany, is infected Microsoft president and chief legal officer Brad Smith said on Sunday: "We have seen vulnerabilities stored by the CIA show up on Wikileaks, and now this vulnerability stolen from the NSA has affected customers around the world. "An equivalent scenario with conventional weapons would be the US military having some of its Tomahawk missiles stolen." The organisation also said that many organisations had failed to keep their systems up to date, allowing the virus to spread. Microsoft said it had released a Windows security update in March to tackle the problem involved in the latest attack, but many users were yet to run it. How roots can be traced to the US Get news from the BBC in your inbox, each weekday morningRansomware cyber-attack: Who has been hardest hit? 15 May 2017 The WannaCry ransomware cyber-attack has hit more than 200,000 computers in 150 countries since Friday, Europol says. Governments, hospitals and major companies have all found themselves battling the malware, which demands money in return for unfreezing computers. Russia 'hardest hit' The virus tried to infect more computers in Russia than anywhere else, according to an analysis by Kaspersky Lab, a Russian antivirus company. The interior ministry, railways, banks and the Megafon mobile phone operator - Russia's second-largest - all found themselves battling demands for ransom. An interior ministry spokeswoman said about 1,000 computers using Microsoft Windows were attacked but these had been isolated from networks. However, the ministry's vital servers were unaffected because they were running domestic Russian software, the spokeswoman said, including an operating system called Elbrus that was first developed during the late years of the Soviet Union, the New York Times reported . German railways The demand for Bitcoin appeared on departure screens at a Frankfurt station Electronic boards at stations announcing arrivals and departures were affected, but train services were not disrupted, Deutsche Bahn said. China universities Many students reported seeing demands for ransoms pop up on their laptops as networks at universities across the country reported severe disruption. Underfunded universities often use outdated or even pirated computer software, leaving students vulnerable to such attacks, according to BBC Asia-Pacific analyst Celia Hatton. They are now being forced to pay $300 (£230) to continue working on end-of-year projects due to be handed in soon, our correspondent says. Meanwhile, petrol stations in the western city of Chongqing were unable to accept card payments after systems at China National Petroleum Corp became infected, the South China Morning Post reported . Overall, hundreds of thousands of computers at nearly 30,000 institutions and organisations were affected, including government agencies and hospitals, internet firm 360 Security said. South Korea cinema The country's biggest cinema chain CJ CGV said some of its advertisement servers connected to 50 cinemas had been affected, Yonhap news agency said . Officials at the Korea Internet and Security Agency have been monitoring the threat A company official said films were still being screened as scheduled and the company was investigating. Overall, nine cases of ransomware had been found, the South Korean government said. Japan companies The Japan Computer Emergency Response Team Co-ordination Centre said 2,000 computers at 600 companies in Japan had been affected. Hitachi said it was experiencing email delays and file delivery failures and suspected the cyber-attack was to blame, although no ransom was being demanded. Indonesia hospital The communication and information ministry said the malware locked patient files on computers at two hospitals in the capital Jakarta. Patients at the Dharmais Cancer Hospital could not get queue numbers and waited several hours while staff found paper records, local media reported. India state police Police computer systems in the state of Andhra Pradesh have been hit, local media reports say. About 18 systems were hijacked an eventually disabled, the Business Standard reported . Several companies in the cities of Mumbai, Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Chennai were also affected. However India has said that its vital computer systems largely escaped unscathed because the state organisation that manages almost all government websites installed patches to immunise its Windows systems. The Economic Times newspaper had said India could be particularly vulnerable to the malware because a large number of organisations and individuals use old outdated versions of Windows and there are also high numbers of people using pirated software. UK hospitals Some of the biggest disruption was caused by attacks on the UK health system, which saw hospitals and clinics forced to turn away patients after losing access to computers. Pictures on social media showed NHS computer screens with messages saying: "Ooops, your files have been encrypted!" In England, 48 National Health Service (NHS) trusts reported problems at hospitals, doctor surgeries or pharmacies, and 13 NHS organisations in Scotland were also affected. A Nissan car factory in the north-eastern city of Sunderland was also affected, a spokeswoman said. Spanish telecoms The Spanish telephone operator Telefonica said it had been attacked. Telefonica's head of cyber-security Chema Alonso - himself a former hacker - said the infected equipment was "under control and being reinstalled". Other Spanish firms to be hit included power firm Iberdrola and utility provider Gas Natural. Staff were reportedly told to turn off their computers. France Renault The car manufacturer had to halt production at many sites, including in France, Slovenia and Romania, as part of measures to stop the spread of the virus. On Monday the firm said that 90% of its factories were running again. It said its plant at Douai in northern France would be back to normal on Tuesday, following checks. Renault would be able to catch up with any lost production so customers would not be affected, it added. Ireland hospitals Three hospitals in Ireland have been affected but the government says it will not name them and patient care is "broadly unaffected". Fedex The logistics firm said it was "implementing remediation steps as quickly as possible", without specifying how badly it had been affected. Australia SMEs Australian officials said so far only three small-to-medium sized businesses had reported being locked out of their systems. In New Zealand, the ministry of business said a small number of unconfirmed incidents were being investigated.Massive ransomware infection hits computers in 99 countries 13 May 2017 The ransomware has been identified as WannaCry - here shown in a safe environment on a security researcher's computer A massive cyber-attack using tools believed to have been stolen from the US National Security Agency (NSA) has struck organisations around the world. Cyber-security firm Avast said it had seen 75,000 cases of the ransomware - known as WannaCry and variants of that name - around the world. There are reports of infections in 99 countries, including Russia and China. Among the worst hit was the National Health Service (NHS) in England and Scotland. The BBC understands about 40 NHS organisations and some medical practices were hit, with operations and appointments cancelled. NHS cyber attack: "My heart surgery was cancelled" How did the cyber-attack unfold? The malware spread quickly on Friday, with medical staff in the UK reportedly seeing computers go down "one by one". NHS staff shared screenshots of the WannaCry program, which demanded a payment of $300 (£230) in virtual currency Bitcoin to unlock the files for each computer. Throughout the day other, mainly European countries, reported infections. Some reports said Russia had seen more infections than any other single country. Domestic banks, the interior and health ministries, the state-owned Russian railway firm and the second largest mobile phone network were all reported to have been hit. Russia's interior ministry said 1,000 of its computers had been infected but the virus was swiftly dealt with and no sensitive data was compromised. In Spain , a number of large firms - including telecoms giant Telefonica, power firm Iberdrola and utility provider Gas Natural - were also hit, with reports that staff at the firms were told to turn off their computers. People tweeted photos of affected computers including a local railway ticket machine in Germany and a university computer lab in Italy . France's car-maker Renault, Portugal Telecom, the US delivery company FedEx and a local authority in Sweden were also affected. China has not officially commented on any attacks it may have suffered, but comments on social media said a university computer lab had been compromised. Read more: Who has been hit by the NHS cyber attack? Explaining the global ransomware outbreak A hack born in the USA? Coincidentally, finance ministers from the Group of Seven wealthiest countries have been meeting in Italy to discuss the threat of cyber-attacks on the global financial system. They are expected to release a statement later in which they pledge greater co-operation in the fight against cyber-crime, including spotting potential vulnerabilities and assessing security measures. The BBC's Rory Cellan Jones explains how Bitcoin works How does the malware work and who is behind it? The infections seem to be deployed via a worm - a program that spreads by itself between computers. Most other malicious programs rely on humans to spread by tricking them into clicking on an attachment harbouring the attack code. By contrast, once WannaCry is inside an organisation it will hunt down vulnerable machines and infect them too. Some experts say the attack may have been built to exploit a weakness in Microsoft systems that had been identified by the NSA and given the name EternalBlue. The NSA tools were stolen by a group of hackers known as The Shadow Brokers, who made it freely available in April, saying it was a "protest" about US President Donald Trump. At the time, some cyber-security experts said some of the malware was real, but old. A patch for the vulnerability was released by Microsoft in March, which would have automatically protected those computers with Windows Update enabled. Microsoft said on Friday it would roll out the update to users of older operating systems "that no longer receive mainstream support", such Windows XP (which the NHS still largely uses), Windows 8 and Windows Server 2003. Technology explained: what is ransomware? The number of infections seems to be slowing after a "kill switch" appears to have been accidentally triggered by a UK-based cyber-security researcher tweeting as @MalwareTechBlog . He was quoted as saying he noticed the web address the virus was searching for had not been registered - and when he registered it, the virus appeared to stop spreading. But he warned this was a temporary fix, and urged computers users to "patch your systems ASAP". Why do companies still use Windows XP? By Chris Foxx, technology reporter Many jobs can be done using software everyone can buy, but some businesses need programs that perform very specific jobs - so they build their own. For example. a broadcaster might need specialist software to track all the satellite feeds coming into the newsroom, and a hospital might need custom-built tools to analyse X-ray images. Developing niche but useful software like this can be very expensive - the programming, testing, maintenance and continued development all adds up. Then along comes a new version of Windows, and the software isn't compatible. Companies then face the cost of upgrading computers and operating system licenses, as well as the cost of rebuilding their software from scratch. So, some choose to keep running the old version of Windows instead. For some companies, that is not a huge risk. In a hospital, the stakes are higher.Ransomware spike blamed on easy-to-use malware builders Security experts say a sharp increase in ransomware attacks is in part a result of how easy the malware is to acquire. Researchers at Cylance and AlienVault were able to find off-the-shelf ransomware using a normal search engine, which could then be used to lock victims' computer files and blackmail them. See more at Click's website and @BBCClick . This week BBC News is taking a close look at all aspects of cyber-security. The coverage is timed to coincide with the two biggest shows in the security calendar - Black Hat and Def Con. Follow all our coverage via this link 26 July 2017 BBC News TechnologyCheap ransomware takes files 'hostage' 14 July 2016 Malware that gives victims 96 hours to pay a ransom before it starts deleting files from their PC has been spotted on the dark web. If the ransom remains unpaid, it continues deleting random files every six hours. The Stampado malware is for sale for less than $50 for a lifetime's licence. Unlike other variants, it does not need administrator rights to start infecting computers. Ransomware is malicious software that scrambles the data on a victim's PC and then asks for payment before restoring the data to its original state. The costs of unlocking data vary, with individuals typically paying a few hundred pounds and businesses a few thousand. "Cryptoware is such a big segment of the malware economy, malware creators have to constantly release new products to keep their clients engaged and the money flowing," said security firm Heimdal in a blog. Technology explained: what is ransomware? In June, researchers at Intel Security said they had seen an "alarming" rise in the volume of ransomware available to hackers. They said that they had logged 124 separate variants of the malware. The FBI also said that it had seen ransomware attacks double in the past year, with more than 2,400 complaints. It estimated losses from such attacks stand at $24m (£18m) in that timeframe. Banks, hospitals and educational institutions have all been hit by attacks in recent months. Most attempt to solve the issue internally before paying any ransoms.Ransomware 'stopped' by new software 12 July 2016 Technology explained: what is ransomware? Scientists at the University of Florida (UF) say they have developed software that can stop the growing problem of ransomware in its tracks. Ransomware encrypts computer files and is used by hackers who then demand money in exchange for freeing the content. It is becoming a huge problem globally. The solution - dubbed CryptoDrop - detected the malware and stopped it after it had encrypted just a handful of files, said its developers. Patrick Traynor, an associate professor in UF's department of computer and information science, worked with PhD student Nolen Scaife and Henry Carter, from Villanova University, on the software. "Our system is more of an early-warning system," Mr Scaife said. "It doesn't prevent the ransomware from starting... it prevents the ransomware from completing its task… so you lose only a couple of pictures or a couple of documents rather than everything that's on your hard drive, and it relieves you of the burden of having to pay the ransom." In tests, CryptoDrop had spotted 100% of malware samples and stopped it after an average of 10 files had been encrypted, researchers said. In May, the FBI issued a warning saying that the number of ransomware attacks had doubled in the past year and was expected to grow even more rapidly this year. It said that it had received more than 2,400 complaints last year and estimated losses from such attacks at $24m (£18m) for individuals and businesses. Governments, large companies, banks, hospitals and educational institutions are all among the victims of such attacks. Richard Cassidy, an expert at security firm Alert Logic said of CryptoDrop: "Whilst the step taken by researchers at the University of Florida are indeed a novel way in which to detect and contain ransomware, it doesn't serve as the 'silver bullet' for ransomware as a whole." "There are new variants being written all the time and ransomware writers will indeed take the time to dissect and understand how this new technology operates, creating versions that will attempt to either bypass detection, or at the very least search more effectively for likely sensitive files, before encrypting them, with the hope of having the biggest impact of securing a ransom payment." The team at UF currently has a prototype that works with Windows-based systems. It is seeking a commercial partner for the software, having recently presented its paper on the technology at a conference in Japan.UK cyber-threat agency confronts Covid-19 attacks Gordon Corera @gordoncorera 3 November 2020 More than a quarter of the incidents which the UK's National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) responded to were Covid-related, according to its latest annual report. The review covers the period from September 2019 to August 2020, so the pandemic occupied an even higher proportion of the agency's efforts after the first lockdown began. In total there were 723 incidents of all kinds, marking close to a 10% rise on the previous period. Of those, 194 were Covid-related. Some of the incidents related to countering nation-state attacks, but most were criminal in nature, the GCHQ division reported. It also disclosed that it had thwarted 15,354 campaigns that had used coronavirus themes as a "lure" to fool people into clicking on a link or opening an attachment containing malicious software. Some involved fake shops selling PPE (personal protective equipment), test kits and even vaccines. Vaccine hackers Protecting the NHS and health-related research has been a priority, the report said.. In July, the UK accused Russia of trying to steal vaccine-related information through cyber-espionage. And officials said they had continued to see an "ongoing threat" of states targeting the vaccine research-and-delivery programme. The NCSC said it had scanned more than one million NHS IP (internet protocol) addresses to look for vulnerabilities, and had shared 51,000 indicators of compromise. It has also carried out "threat hunting" to look for security risks on connected devices, and worked on the security of the NHS Covid-19 contact-tracing app. Aggressive ransomware attacks The NCSC also warned ransomware attacks had become more common. Ransomware locks people out of their computers and demands victims make a blackmail payment to restore access - and even then it is not always granted. The NCSC said it had handled more than three times as many ransomware incidents as in the previous year. These included an attack against Redcar and Cleveland Council which, the officials said, had "caused considerable damage and disruption". The report added the NCSC had observed a growing trend for such attacks to be more targeted and aggressive than previously. Rather than just locking people out of access to their data until a ransom was paid, attackers often warned they would embarrass victims if they refused to comply. "We have seen the threat of data being leaked," Paul Chichester, director of operations, told the BBC. Examples included details of staff salaries being published online. This meant victims were at risk even if they have backed up their data. However, the NCSC said the UK did not appear to be as heavily targeted as some countries, because British victims were less likely to pay the attackers. Punch-tape replacement The NCSC has also been working to increase skills and diversity in the cyber-security industry. It said almost 12,000 girls had taken part in its 2020 competition. However, an advert for the government's related CyberFirst campaign was widely criticised last month for featuring a ballerina and the slogan "Fatima's next job could be in cyber". NCSC has said it was not involved in the creation of the CyberFirst poster The report also highlighted the agency's role in protecting parliament as it became "virtual" to prevent hacking of debates or votes. And it revealed that the NCSC had just updated the system for producing cryptographic keys, which encrypt classified government and military systems. A new electronic system was introduced to replace old-fashioned punch-tape.Ransomware attacks around the world grow by 50% 27 April 2017 Email is still the preferred attack tool of cyber-thieves Ransomware attacks on businesses around the world rose 50% last year, research into successful cyber-breaches shows. Its popularity means malware is now responsible for 51% of all the incidents analysed in the annual Verizon data breach report. This analyses almost 2,000 breaches to find out how firms were caught out by cyber-thieves. It also found that measures taken by some firms after payment systems were targeted, stopped new breaches. Glimmer of hope The rapid rise in the number of successful ransomware attacks was widely expected, said Marc Spitler, senior manager in Verizon's security research division, simply because so many malicious hacking groups were adopting the tactic. "Ransomware is all about how can they get more money per infected device," he said. A separate report by security firm Symantec found that the average amount paid by victims of ransomware had risen to $1,077 (£834). Consumers were likely to be hit straight away with ransomware, said Mr Spitler, but attacks on businesses were stealthier. Often, he said, attackers burrowed deeper into a company's infrastructure to find key databases that were then scrambled before payment was sought. In most attacks, booby-trapped attachments sent via email were the main delivery mechanism for ransomware and other malware, found the report. "These attacks are all about getting a foothold on a system," he said, adding that once attackers were inside an organisation they typically looked to use the back doors for many different types of attack. Darren Thomson, chief technology officer for Symantec in Europe, said its statistics suggest about one in every 131 email messages was now harbouring some kind of cyber-threat. "They are arriving in Word documents and Excel spreadsheets," he said, "the messages people get many times a day." The Verizon report also spotted a shift in the targets of cyber-attacks with 61% of victims now being companies with fewer than 1,000 employees. The good news, said Mr Spitler, was that some industry sectors that had been hit hard before, now appeared less often in its attack statistics - suggesting their digital defences were starting to work. "The lack of large retailers suffering point-of-sale intrusions was a glimmer of hope," he said.'Alarming' rise in ransomware tracked By Mark Ward 7 June 2016 The Petya ransomware makes a computer unusable until a ransom is paid Cyber-thieves are adopting ransomware in "alarming" numbers, say security researchers. There are now more than 120 separate families of ransomware, said experts studying the malicious software. Other researchers have seen a 3,500% increase in the criminal use of net infrastructure that helps run ransomware campaigns. The rise is driven by the money thieves make with ransomware and the increase in kits that help them snare victims. Ransomware is malicious software that scrambles the data on a victim's PC and then asks for payment before restoring the data to its original state. The costs of unlocking data vary, with individuals typically paying a few hundred pounds and businesses a few thousand. Rapid growth "Ransomware and crypto malware are rising at an alarming rate and show no signs of stopping," said Raj Samani, European technology head for Intel Security. Ransomware samples seen by his company had risen by more than a quarter in the first three months of 2016, he added. Mr Samani blamed the rise on the appearance of freely available source code for ransomware and the debut of online services that let amateurs cash in. Ransomware was easy to use, low risk and offered a high reward, said Bart Parys, a security researcher who helps to maintain a list of the growing numbers of types of this kind of malware. "The return on investment is very high," he said. Many cyber-thieves using ransomware demand to be paid in bitcoins Mr Parys and his colleagues have now logged 124 separate variants of ransomware. Some virulent strains, such as Locky and Cryptolocker, were controlled by individual gangs, he said, but others were being used by people buying the service from an underground market. "It's safe to say that certain groups are behind several ransomware programs, but not all," he said. "Especially now with Eda and HiddenTear copy and paste ransomware, there are many new, and often unexperienced, cybercriminals." A separate indicator of the growth of ransomware came from the amount of net infrastructure that gangs behind the malware had been seen using. The numbers of web domains used to host the information and payment systems had grown 35-fold, said Infoblox in its annual report which monitors these chunks of the net's infrastructure. "They use it and customise it for each attack, " said Rod Rasmussen, vice-president of security at Infoblox. "They will have their own command and control infrastructure and they might use it to generate domains for a campaign," he told the BBC. "Then they'll have some kind of payment area that victims can go to." "The different parts are tied to particular parts of the chain," he said. "Infection, exploitation and ransom." Hidden files Technology explained: what is ransomware? The spread of ransomware was also being aided by tricks cyber-thieves used to avoid being detected by security software, said Tomer Weingarten, founder of security company SentinelOne. "Traditional anti-virus software is not effective in dealing with these types of attacks," he said. The gangs behind the most prevalent ransomware campaigns had got very good at hiding their malicious code, said Mr Weingarten. "Where we see the innovation is in the infection vector," he said. SentinelOne had seen gangs using both well-known techniques and novel technical tricks to catch out victims. A lot of ransomware reached victims via spear-phishing campaigns or booby-trapped adverts, he said, but other gangs used specialised "crypters" and "packers" that made files look benign. Others relied on inserting malware into working memory so it never reached the parts of a computer on which most security software keeps an eye. "It's been pretty insane with ransomware recently," he said.WannaCry ransomware cyber-attack 'may have N Korea link' Dave Lee 16 May 2017 Comments A coded tweet from a Google researcher first raised suspicions of a North Korea link Who was behind the huge global cyber-attack? One prominent theory right now is North Korea - but what we know is far from conclusive. You may not have heard of the Lazarus Group, but you may be aware of its work. The devastating hack on Sony Pictures in 2014 , and another on a Bangladeshi bank in 2016 , have both been attributed to the highly sophisticated group. It is widely believed that the Lazarus Group worked out of China, but on behalf of the North Koreans. Security experts are now cautiously linking the Lazarus Group to this latest attack after a discovery by Google security researcher Neel Mehta . He found similarities between code found within WannaCry - the software used in the hack - and other tools believed to have been created by the Lazarus Group in the past. It's a mere sliver of evidence, but there are other clues to consider too. Picking apart the code Prof Alan Woodward, a security expert, pointed out to me that the text demanding the ransom uses what reads like machine-translated English, with a Chinese segment apparently written by a native speaker. "As you can see it's pretty thin and all circumstantial," Prof Woodward said. "However, it's worth further investigation." The WannaCry malware threatens to delete users' data unless they pay a ransom "Neel Mehta’s discovery is the most significant clue to date regarding the origins of WannaCry,” said Russian security firm Kaspersky , but noted a lot more information is needed about earlier versions of WannaCry before any firm conclusion can be reached. "We believe it’s important that other researchers around the world investigate these similarities and attempt to discover more facts about the origin of WannaCry,” the company added. "Looking back to the Bangladesh attack, in the early days, there were very few facts linking them to the Lazarus Group. "In time, more evidence appeared and allowed us, and others, to link them together with high confidence. Further research can be crucial to connecting the dots." Attributing cyber-attacks can be notoriously difficult - often relying on consensus rather than confirmation. For example, North Korea has never admitted any involvement in the Sony Pictures hack - and while security researchers, and the US government, have confidence in the theory, neither can rule out the possibility of a false flag. Skilled hackers may have simply made it look like it had origins in North Korea by using similar techniques. 'Wouldn’t stand up in court' In the case of WannaCry, it is possible that hackers simply copied code from earlier attacks by the Lazarus Group. How to protect yourself online But Kaspersky said false flags within WannaCry were "possible" but "improbable", as the shared code was removed from later versions. "There's a lot of ifs in there," added Prof Woodward. "It wouldn't stand up in court as it is. But it's worth looking deeper, being conscious of confirmation bias now that North Korea has been identified as a possibility." It’s the strongest theory yet as to the origin of WannaCry, but there are also details that arguably point away from it being the work of North Korea. Few could have suspected a Seth Rogen-directed film would have such global political repercussions First, China was among the countries worst hit, and not accidentally - the hackers made sure there was a version of the ransom note written in Chinese. It seems unlikely North Korea would want to antagonise its strongest ally. Russia too was badly affected. Second, North Korean cyber-attacks have typically been far more targeted, often with a political goal in mind. In the case of Sony Pictures, hackers sought to prevent the release of The Interview, a film that mocked North Korean leader Kim Jong-un. WannaCry, in contrast, was wildly indiscriminate - it would infect anything and everything it could. Finally, if the plan was simply to make money, it’s been pretty unsuccessful on that front too - only around $60,000 (£46,500) has been paid in ransoms, according to analysis of Bitcoin accounts being used by the criminals. With more than 200,000 machines infected, it's a terrible return. But then of course, maybe the ransom was a distraction for some other political goal not yet clear. Another possibility is that the Lazarus Group worked alone, without instruction from North Korea. Indeed, it could be that the Lazarus Group isn’t even linked to North Korea. More questions than answers - and in cyber-war, facts are extremely hard to come by.NHS cyber-attack: More ransomware cases 'likely on Monday' 14 May 2017 More ransomware cases may come to light on Monday, possibly on "a significant scale", the UK's cyber-security agency has warned after a global cyber-attack. The National Cyber Security Centre has advised firms how to protect computers as they start the working week. It comes after Friday's attack caused disruption in 150 countries. In the UK, NHS hospitals, pharmacies and GP surgeries were the worst-affected. A handful of NHS trusts are still dealing with the problems it caused. In a statement, the National Cyber Security Centre said a ransomware attack of this type and on this scale could happen again although there is "no specific evidence" as yet. It said it knew of attempts to attack organisations other than the NHS, and warned more cases could "come to light" in the UK and elsewhere as the new working week begins. Ransomware attacks are "some of the most immediately damaging forms of cyber-attack", it said, and advised companies to: How to protect yourself online What happened? The NHS, Fedex and the main telecoms operator in Spain were among 200,000 known victims  - organisations and private individuals - of Friday's global cyber-attack. The ransomware, which locked users' files and demanded payment to allow access, spread to 150 countries, including Russia, the US and China. In England, 47 trusts reported problems at hospitals, GP surgeries or pharmacies and 13 NHS organisations in Scotland were also affected. Some hospitals were forced to cancel treatment and appointments and, unable to use computers, many doctors resorted to using pen and paper. The cost of the attack is unknown, in the UK or beyond, but BBC analysis of three accounts linked to the ransom demands suggest hackers have already been paid the equivalent of £22,080. What can patients expect? The Scottish government said the cyber-attack had been isolated and it expected that most NHS computers would be back to normal by Monday. NHS England has told patients to attend hospital if they have an appointment unless they are told not to. However, several trusts in England have issued their own advice to patients. As of Sunday night they were: What are the political parties saying? The government is insisting that the NHS had been repeatedly warned about the cyber-threat to their IT systems. Defence Secretary Michael Fallon said £50m of £1.9bn set aside for UK cyber-protection was being spent on NHS cyber systems to improve their security. The NHS has been given about £50m to improve its computer systems, defence minister Michael Fallon says. But Labour say the Conservatives have cut funding to the NHS's IT budget and specifically a contract to protect computer systems was not renewed after 2015. The Liberal Democrats and Labour have both demanded an inquiry into the cyber-attack. In an interview on BBC One's Andrew Marr show, Sir Michael said NHS trusts had been encouraged to "reduce their exposure to the weakest system, the Windows XP", with fewer than 5% of trusts using it now. "We want them to use modern systems that are better protected. We warned them, and they were warned again in the spring. They were warned again of the threats," he added. Shadow health secretary Jonathan Ashworth has written to Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt to ask why concerns repeatedly flagged up about the NHS's "outdated, unsupported and vulnerable" machines had not been addressed. On ITV's Robert Peston, Mr Ashworth accused the government of having "cut the IT and infrastructure budget" by £1bn in the NHS, and said his party, if elected to power, would put £10bn into the infrastructure of the NHS. He called for the Conservatives to publish the Department of Health's risk register to see how seriously they were taking IT threats. Scottish Justice Secretary Michael Matheson said more than 120 public bodies were being contacted to ensure their defences were adequate. What are others saying? Kingsley Manning, a former chairman of NHS Digital - which provides the health service's IT systems - told the BBC on Saturday that several hundred thousand computers were still running on Windows XP. And a neurology registrar from London, Dr Krishna Chinthapalli, wrote an article for the British Medical Journal just a week ago, warning that hospitals would "almost certainly be shut down by ransomware this year". He told the BBC the NHS was in a tricky position - treating sick patients, as a 24/7 operation with specialist software - making update implementation complicated. "People developing ransomware know a hospital is a good target because the information is about patients and is time-sensitive - hospitals need to get their data back quicker," he said. Attacks on hospital data and patients were "despicable at the basic level", he said. Meanwhile, digital rights campaigners Open Rights Group has accused GCHQ of a "very dangerous strategy of hoarding knowledge of security problems". It said Britain's electronic surveillance agency was "in charge of hacking us and protecting us from hackers", making it hard to balance the risks of keeping vulnerabilities secret. Jim Killock, the group's executive director, said: "US and UK security agencies kept a widespread vulnerability secret rather than telling the companies so they could fix it." He called for the National Cyber Security Centre to be made independent from GCHQ. Has the virus been stopped? It's unlikely. Europol head Rob Wainwright said he was concerned that the number affected would continue to rise when people returned to work on Monday morning. He told the BBC there was an escalating threat from the virus , known as Wanna Decryptor or WannaCry, adding: "We've never seen anything like this - it's unprecedented in scale." Europol director Rob Wainwright warned that companies must patch their systems before Monday morning Get news from the BBC in your inbox, each weekday morning Are you a patient or an NHS employee? Are you still being affected by the cyber attack and its aftermath? Share your story with us by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk . Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also contact us in the following ways:Global cyber-attack: Security blogger halts ransomware 'by accident' By Chris Fox 13 May 2017 LISTEN: How 'Malware Tech' became an 'accidental hero' A UK security researcher has told the BBC how he "accidentally" halted the spread of the malicious ransomware that has affected hundreds of organisations, including the UK's NHS. The 22-year-old man, known by the pseudonym MalwareTech, had taken a week off work, but decided to investigate the ransomware after hearing about the global cyber-attack. He managed to bring the spread to a halt when he found what appeared to be a "kill switch" in the rogue software's code. "It was actually partly accidental," he told the BBC, after spending the night investigating. "I have not slept a wink." Although his discovery did not repair the damage done by the ransomware, it did stop it spreading to new computers, and he has been hailed an "accidental hero". "I would say that's correct," he told the BBC. Cyber-attack scale 'unprecedented' NHS 'robust' after cyber-attack "The attention has been slightly overwhelming. The boss gave me another week off to make up for this train-wreck of a vacation." What exactly did he discover? The researcher first noticed that the malware was trying to contact a specific web address every time it infected a new computer. But the web address it was trying to contact - a long jumble of letters - had not been registered. MalwareTech decided to register it, and bought it for $10.69 (£8).  Owning it would let him see where computers were accessing it from, and give him an idea of how widespread the ransomware was. Owning the web address let MalwareTech monitor where infections were happening By doing so, he unexpectedly triggered part of the ransomware's code that told it to stop spreading. Analysis: How did it start? What is the ransomware? This type of code is known as a "kill switch", which some attackers use to halt the spread of their software if things get out of hand. He tested his discovery and was delighted when he managed to trigger the ransomware on demand. "Now you probably can't picture a grown man jumping around with the excitement of having just been 'ransomwared', but this was me," he said in a blog post . MalwareTech now thinks the code was originally designed to thwart researchers trying to investigate the ransomware, but it backfired by letting them remotely disable it. Does this mean the ransomware is defeated? While the registration of the web address appears to have stopped one strain of the ransomware spreading from device-to-device, it does not repair computers that are already infected. Security experts have also warned that new variants of the malware that ignore the "kill switch" will appear. "This variant shouldn't be spreading any further, however there'll almost certainly be copycats," said security researcher Troy Hunt in a blog post. MalwareTech warned: "We have stopped this one, but there will be another one coming and it will not be stoppable by us. "There's a lot of money in this, there is no reason for them to stop. It's not much effort for them to change the code and start over."NHS cyber-attack: GPs and hospitals hit by ransomware 13 May 2017 The ransomware involved has been defeated before, reports the BBC's Chris Foxx NHS services across England and Scotland have been hit by a large-scale cyber-attack that has disrupted hospital and GP appointments. The prime minister said the incident was part of an untargeted wider attack affecting organisations globally. Some hospitals and GPs have been unable to access patient data, after their computers were locked by a ransomware program demanding a payment worth £230. But there is no evidence patient data has been compromised, NHS Digital said. The BBC understands about 40 NHS organisations and some GP practices have been hit. The NHS in Wales and Northern Ireland has not been affected. There is no indication of who is behind the attack yet, but the hackers demanded their payment in the virtual currency Bitcoin, which is harder to trace. Prime Minister Theresa May said: "This is not targeted at the NHS, it's an international attack and a number of countries and organisations have been affected." Ambulances diverted Mrs May added that the National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) was "working closely" with the NHS "to ensure that they support the organisations concerned and that they protect patient safety". Ambulances have been diverted from hospitals in some areas and there has been disruption at some GP surgeries as a result of the attack. NHS England said patients in an emergency should go to A&E or access emergency services as they normally would. Dr Anne Rainsberry, NHS incident director, added: "More widely, we ask people to use the NHS wisely while we deal with this major incident, which is still ongoing." Angry doctors, disappointed patients: Reactions to the cyber-attack on the NHS A massive ransomware campaign appears to have attacked a number of organisations around the world, with reports of infections in more than 70 countries. Telefonica, the Spanish telecoms company which owns mobile network O2, said it had detected a "cybersecurity incident" but that clients and services had not been affected. Screenshots of a program that locks computers and demands a payment in Bitcoin have been shared online by those affected. NHS Digital said the attack was believed to have been carried out by the malware variant Wanna Decryptor. "Our focus is on supporting organisations to manage the incident swiftly and decisively, but we will continue to communicate with NHS colleagues and will share more information as it becomes available," it said. Why has the NHS been hit so hard? Technology explained: what is ransomware? There could be a lot of reasons why the NHS was hit so hard by this attack. The most likely one is because it is a huge organisation supported by a massive IT infrastructure. It also has lots of partners and suppliers that connect to its core network. Complexity is the enemy of security and it is a fair bet that some bits of that network, especially those operated by suppliers, are not as well maintained as they should be. This could mean that patches that would have thwarted WannaCry were not applied. So, as soon as the worm got in, it could run rampant. Dr Chris Mimnagh, who works at a medical centre in Liverpool, said the attack had made its job impossible. "Our entire patient record is accessed through the computer - blood results, history, medicines. "Most of our prescribing is done electronically... it's sent direct to the pharmacy and... all that is not able to be accessed when we lose the clinical system." 'Power of the state' Dr Emma Fardon, a GP in Dundee, said she had returned from house visits to find a message on the surgery's computers asking for money. "We can't access any patient records. Everything is fully computerised," she said. "We have no idea what drugs people are on or the allergies they have. We can't access the appointments system." NHS chief Saffron Cordery tells PM that hospitals are cancelling their operations Dr Afzal Ashraf, an expert on cyber-security who has previously worked as an adviser to the government, told the BBC it was likely that the malware was spreading when NHS services shared documents and information. But he also said he thought it was unlikely the attackers had deliberately targeted the NHS. He added: "I think they probably attacked a small company assuming they would get a small amount of money but it's got into the NHS system and now they have the full power of the state against them - because obviously the government cannot afford for this sort of thing to happen and be successful." Get news from the BBC in your inbox, each weekday morningNHS cyber-attack: Former hacker on how ransomware works NHS services across England have been hit by IT failure, believed to be caused by a large-scale cyber-attack thought to be caused by software called ransomware. Robert Schifreen, a former computer hacker and now the editor of the IT safety website Security Smart, explains how ransomware attacks happen. 12 May 2017 BBC News HealthPetya ransomware encryption system cracked 11 April 2016 The Petya ransomware makes a computer unusable until a ransom is paid Petya ransomware victims can now unlock infected computers without paying. An unidentified programmer has produced a tool that exploits shortfalls in the way the malware encrypts a file that allows Windows to start up. In notes put on code-sharing site Github, he said he had produced the key generator to help his father-in-law unlock his Petya-encrypted computer. The malware, which started circulating in large numbers in March, demands a ransom of 0.9 bitcoins (£265). It hid itself in documents attached to emails purporting to come from people looking for work. Scrambling schemes Security researcher Lawrence Abrams, from the Bleeping Computer news site, said the key generator could unlock a Petya-encrypted computer in seven seconds . But the key generator requires victims to extract some information from specific memory locations on the infected drive. And Mr Abrams said: "Unfortunately, for many victims extracting this data is not an easy task." This would probably involve removing the drive and then connecting it up to another virus-free computer running Windows, he said. Another tool can then extract the data, which can be used on the website set up to help people unlock their computer. Independent security analyst Graham Cluley said there had been other occasions when ransomware makers had "bungled" their encryption system. Cryptolocker, Linux.encoder and one other ransomware variant were all rendered harmless when their scrambling schemes were reverse-engineered. "Of course," said Mr Cluley, "the best thing is to have safety secured backups rather than relying upon ransomware criminals goofing up."Warning over 'nasty' ransomware strain 29 March 2016 The Petya ransomware makes a computer unusable until a ransom is paid The FBI is seeking help from US firms as it investigates a nasty strain of ransomware, Reuters reports . Ransomware encrypts data on infected machines and then asks for money before restoring access to information. The FBI is analysing a strain of ransomware called MSIL/Samas that tries to encrypt data across entire networks rather than single computers. The plea comes as security firms warn about other novel strains of the fast-growing, data-scrambling cyber-threats. Bulk discount The FBI sent out the request for help after discovering that the group behind MSIL/Samas had stepped up its efforts to find victims. In the confidential advisory obtained by Reuters, the FBI said the group used a publicly available security program called Jexboss to scan networks looking for vulnerable versions of the widely used JBoss software. When a vulnerable system is found, the malware launches an attack that seeks to scramble data on servers. It also finds and deletes the back-up files firms could use to restore data scrambled by ransomware. Cisco said it had seen a "widespread campaign" using Samas targeting firms involved in healthcare. Early versions of the malware charged a ransom of one bitcoin (£300) for every machine hit but later versions upped this to 1.5 bitcoins. Many hospitals in the US have been hit by ransomware infections "It is likely the malware author is trying to see how much people will pay for their files," wrote Cisco security analyst Nick Biasini in an advisory . "They even added an option for bulk decryption of 22 bitcoin (£6,600) to decrypt all infected systems." The FBI's request for aid comes as security firms warn about recently created ransomware variants that use different methods to lock up systems and force victims to pay. The Petya malware targets a key Windows system file called the Master Boot Record that helps a PC get started. By overwriting this file, people are prevented from getting at any data on their PC unless they pay up. Trend Micro said it had seen Petya distributed in email messages crafted to look like they are from someone looking for work. The CV attached to the message is a booby-trapped program that launches Petya, said Trend security engineer Jasen Sumalapao in a blogpost . Petya charges a ransom of 0.9 bitcoins (£265) to unlock infected machines. Security firm Carbon Black has found another novel strain that goes after many firms that use Windows PowerShell - a scripting program widely used to administer machines running Windows. Dubbed PowerWare, this strain hides malicious code in Word documents and calls on PowerShell to execute the attack code when the booby-trapped files are opened. "Deceptively simple in code, 'PowerWare' is a novel approach to ransomware, reflecting a growing trend of malware authors thinking outside the box in delivering ransomware," said Rico Valdez from Carbon Black .Ransomware shuts down Licking County government in Ohio 3 February 2017 The government of Licking County in the US has taken many of its computer and telephone systems offline as it tries to tackle a ransomware infection. Ransomware is a type of computer malware that scrambles data and demands a fee for it to be restored. Citizens have been told they must visit government offices to do tasks usually completed online or by phone. The county commissioner told local media that he was taking advice from cybersecurity experts and the FBI. Technology explained: what is ransomware? Licking County, which is in Ohio, has about 170,000 residents. The local government says it has about 1,000 computers and 12 servers, which have been taken offline making many government websites inaccessible. Many of the county's public services, including the emergency services, have resorted to working in "manual mode" without their computers, to prevent the malware being spread to more devices. Residents are still able to call 911 in an emergency but the process may take longer than usual. "It's slower than we'd like," Sean Grady, director of the Licking County Emergency Management Agency, told the Newark Advocate . "It takes us back 25 years in how we dispatch. We ask more detailed questions." County commissioner Tim Bubb said the malware was a "crime against the people of Licking County" but added that the government had not been specifically targeted. "Clearly, it's designed to make money for somebody. It was just our unlucky day," he said. Some variants of ransomware have previously been defeated, with removal instructions now available online. However, security experts warn that in some cases the only way to get data back is by restoring from a back-up. Mr Bubb said he was exploring that option, but did not know how long it would take for computer systems to be back online. "We're evaluating our back-ups. We think our back-ups are pretty darn good," he said.Chinese hackers turn to ransomware 15 March 2016 Technology explained: what is ransomware? Chinese hackers are launching sophisticated ransomware attacks - in which they hijack machines and demand payment to decrypt them, according to reports. Four separate security firms have spotted attacks they believe emanated from China in recent months, reveals Reuters. There is speculation that the "skilled operators" could be state-sponsored hackers. The Chinese government said it would investigate if there was reliable proof. Reliable proof Dell SecureWorks investigated two ransomware attacks this year - one at a transportation company and one at a technology firm In the second case, 30% of the unnamed firm's machines were captured by the hackers. Phil Burdette, who heads an incident response team at Dell said: "It is obviously a group of skilled operators that have some amount of experience conducting intrusions." Security firms Attack Research, InGuardians and G-C Partners said they had investigated three other similar attacks since December. A Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman told Reuters that it would not act on "rumours and speculation" but the ministry itself said that if there was reliable proof, it would treat the matter seriously. The Chinese government pledged to oppose economic espionage in an agreement with the US last year, with some US firms since reporting a drop in the amount of hacking sourced from China. It also wants deeper internet security co-operation with the US as hacking continues to be a sore spot in US-China relations. If the government has reduced its support for economic espionage, that may mean hackers are looking for other means of supplementing their incomes, reports Reuters. Recently security firms warned about a huge surge in junk mail messages containing ransomware, which was blamed on new malware hitting the market which can avoid being spotted by anti-virus software. Ransomware has been around for years but better encryption techniques mean it is often impossible for victims to regain access to their files without co-operation from the hackers. Many ransomware payments are made in the virtual currency Bitcoin, and few firms are open about such attacks.Tech Tent - ransomware, election bots and AI Rory Cellan-Jones @BBCRoryCJ 21 October 2016 On this week's Tech Tent - your weekly status update on the technology business - we have three stories reflecting our current anxieties about the nature of our digital world. We'll discuss the biggest cybersecurity threat of the moment, the use of bots in the fight to get the upper hand on social media during the US elections and the ongoing debate about the risks of artificial intelligence. Ransomware This week, producer Jat Gill and I attended a demo by security firm Sophos which left us both rather scared. James Lyne from the firm played a bad guy launching an attack on a company, while two colleagues played the increasingly confused system administrators trying to work out what was going on as chaos engulfed the network. We then heard that the principle weapon in the attackers' armoury was now ransomware. This is malicious software that first takes over your network, then encrypts all your files before demanding a ransom - usually in Bitcoin - to unlock them. This is now proving a major threat to organisations from hospitals to police forces - we don't know the exact scale of the problem because it seems many quietly pay up without telling anybody. What's really scary is that some of this ransomware is now out there on the internet but without any way of even paying the criminals behind it, who have long since moved on. That means there is no way of unlocking your encrypted files. So what's to be done? James Lyne tells us that companies which regularly update their security systems should be safe - but the most important advice is to make regular back-ups of your files, and make sure they are insulated from the rest of your network. Bots for Trump The second debate was marked by the personal attacks each candidate made about the other Computational propaganda is the term  Professor Philip Howard of Oxford University  uses to describe his research project. He is on this week's show talking about his study of Twitter activity during the Presidential debates. His research - which has not yet been peer reviewed - appears to show that many more automated accounts are being used to tweet in support of Donald Trump than the bots backing Hillary Clinton. During British election campaigns I get bombarded with reports from sentiment analysis firms, claiming they can mine Twitter to understand who is winning over voters. Those claims always seemed dubious - even more so, now that it appears that expertise in running bots is becoming the prime weapon in social media campaigning. The ethics of AI Stephen Hawking has warned about the dangers of artificial intelligence. At a period  when new advances in Artificial Intelligence seem to be reported every day, the ethical issues surrounding its impact on our lives are rising up the agenda. This week saw the opening of an AI think tank,  the Centre for the Future of Intelligence, in Cambridge with Prof Stephen Hawking renewing his warnings that the technology could bring extraordinary benefits to mankind - but could also spell the end for us. Then on Thursday night I took part in a Cambridge Union debate opposing the motion: "This House fears the rise of artificial intelligence". I'm afraid to report that our side lost - and fear won - though all the speakers agreed we needed a more nuanced view of AI. And that's what we get on Friday's programme from one of the pioneers of artificial intelligence research in the UK, Prof Margaret Boden. She tells us to stop worrying about some apocalypse that is a very remote danger but start thinking about the ethics of using robots to care for the elderly. Listen to Tech Tent on Fridays at 15:00 GMT (16:00 BST) on BBC World Service or catch the podcast here. .London's Hackney Borough Council hit by hack attack 13 October 2020 Visitors to the council's website were greeted with this message London's Hackney Council says it has been hit by "a serious cyber-attack" which is affecting its IT systems. Services may be "unavailable" and people should only contact the council "if absolutely necessary", it tweeted. Officials are working with the UK National Cyber Security Centre to investigate the hack. In February, another local authority - Redcar and Cleveland Borough Council - said it had been hit by a ransomware attack, which cost it more than £10m. Hackney's mayor has only shared scant details of what is involved in its case so far. "This investigation is at an early stage, and limited information is currently available," he posted . "Our focus is on continuing to deliver essential frontline services, especially to our most vulnerable residents, and protecting data, while restoring affected services as soon as possible. In the meantime, some council services may be unavailable or slower than normal." A spokesperson for the National Cyber Security Centre said: "The NCSC is supporting the organisation and working with partners to understand the impact of this incident." Ransomware attacks are a growing problem for public services, from councils to hospitals. In such attacks, hackers take control of computer systems and data and demand payments in order to unlock them. The alternative is for councils is to rebuild systems from scratch via back-ups.Ransomware cyber-hero Marcus Hutchins' family 'have faith' in US judiciary 16 August 2017 Marcus Hutchins, from Devon, shot to fame after helping to stall a cyber-attack on the NHS in May The parents of a British cyber-security expert arrested on hacking charges in America, have spoken of their faith in the US judicial system. Marcus Hutchins, from Devon, denies six charges relating to Kronos, malicious software that gathered financial information from infected computers. The 23-year-old's parents, Des and Janet Hutchins, said they "have no doubt that Marcus will be seen as an innocent party". His trial is scheduled for October. More on cyber-defender family and other Devon stories Speaking publicly for the first time since the arrest, Des Hutchins, from Ilfracombe in Devon, said in a joint statement: "Janet and I have full confidence in the United States judicial system. "Once all the evidence is available we have no doubt that Marcus will be seen as an innocent party." He continued: "Our family is grateful for everyone's messages of support, and their belief in his values, as he tries to clear his name." "We hope people will understand that we can make no further comment at this time. Marcus's case is in the hands of his lawyers," he added. Marcus Hutchins appeared in court in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, earlier this week, after which he was allowed to continue working, and to access the internet . He shot to fame after helping to stall the WannaCry ransomware cyber-attack that struck the NHS and affected many other organisations around the world in May. He was arrested at Las Vegas airport by the FBI as he tried to fly home from the Def Con hacking conference. The defendant is not allowed to the leave the country and is expected to live in Los Angeles, where his employer Kryptos Logic, is based.University pays $20,000 to ransomware hackers 8 June 2016 University IT workers tried to crack the ransomware for more than a week before the payment A Canadian university has paid hackers to restore access to data they had turned into the digital equivalent of gibberish. The University of Calgary transferred 20,000 Canadian dollars-worth of bitcoins ($15,780; £10,840) after it was unable to unwind damage caused by a type of attack known as ransomware. The malware caused emails and other files to become encrypted. One expert warned that the payout would encourage further blackmail attempts. The move comes the same week Intel warned that ransomware infections were spreading at "an alarming rate". More than 120 separate strains exist, many of which are frequently updated, making it difficult for security experts to offer a solution. Technology explained: what is ransomware? The University of Calgary told a local newspaper that more than 100 of its computers had been affected since it was attacked last month. "The university is now in the process of assessing and evaluating the decryption keys," said the university's vice president Linda Dalgetty . "The actual process of decryption is time-consuming and must be performed with care. "It is important to note that decryption keys do not automatically restore all systems or guarantee the recovery of all data." She added that the local police force was investigating the matter. Exposure threats The university follows other high-profile bodies to have met cybercriminals' demands in recent weeks. In February, the Hollywood Presbyterian Medical Center paid $17,000 to restore access to its system. At the end of the same month, Melrose Police Department in Massachusetts paid $450 after it fell victim to a similar attack. "It's very tempting for organisations to pay out the ransom because that might be the only way they can get their data back, but that makes it worse for everyone else because it encourages more people to set up schemes like the one used in the Calgary case," commented Dr Steven Murdoch from University College London. "It would be better if nobody ever paid, although that's unrealistic to expect. "What's making matters worse is a new trend. "The hackers are threatening to publicly publish information they found on your computers if you refuse to pay, which acts as a double incentive to comply." The University of Calgary has said there was no indication that "any personal or other university data was released to the public".Cyber threat to disrupt start of university term By Sean Coughlan 17 September 2020 Universities and colleges are facing a wave of cyber-attacks Universities and colleges are being warned by the UK's cyber-security agency that rising numbers of cyber-attacks are threatening to disrupt the start of term. The National Cyber Security Centre has issued an alert after a recent spike in attacks on educational institutions. These have been "ransomware" incidents which block access to computer systems. Paul Chichester, the NCSC's director of operations, says such attacks are "reprehensible". The return to school, college and university, already facing problems with Covid-19, now faces an increased risk from cyber-attacks, which the security agency says could "de-rail their preparations for the new term". 'Devastating' The cyber-security body, part of the GCHQ intelligence agency, says attacks can have a "devastating impact" and take weeks or months to put right. Newcastle University and Northumbria have both been targeted by cyber-attacks this month, and a group of further education colleges in Yorkshire and a higher education college in Lancashire faced attacks last month. The warning from the NCSC follows a spate of ransomware attacks against academic institutions - in which malicious software or "malware" is used to lock out users from their own computer systems, paralysing online services, websites and phone networks. The security agency says this is often followed by a ransom note demanding payment for the recovery of this frozen or stolen data - sometimes with the added threat of publicly releasing sensitive information. Newcastle University faced a cyber-attack this month Universities have frequently been targets of cyber-attacks - with up to a thousand attacks per year in the UK. Attacks can be attempts to obtain valuable research information that is commercially and politically sensitive. Universities also hold much personal data about students, staff and, in some cases, former students who might have made donations. Earlier this summer more than 20 universities and charities in the UK, US and Canada were caught up in a ransomware cyber-attack involving a cloud computing supplier, Blackbaud. A Freedom of Information inquiry in July, carried out by the TopLine Comms digital public relations company, found 35 UK universities, out of 105 responses, had faced ransomware attacks over the past decade. There were 25 which had not had attacks - and a further 43 which declined to answer. One university reported 42 separate ransomware attacks since 2013. The warning from the NCSC highlights the vulnerability of online systems for remote working, as increased numbers of staff are working from home. "Phishing" attacks, where people are tricked into clicking on a malicious link such as in an email, also remains a common pathway for such ransomware attempts, says the advice. 'Criminal targeting' Mr Chichester of the NCSC says: "The criminal targeting of the education sector, particularly at such a challenging time, is utterly reprehensible." "I would strongly urge all academic institutions to take heed of our alert." Universities UK says data security has had to become a priority for higher education - and that "protections are in place to manage threats as much as possible". The universities body also says it is working with the NCSC to produce "robust guidance on cyber-security" which will be released later this academic year.Microsoft warns ransomware cyber-attack is a wake-up call 15 May 2017 How to protect yourself online A cyber-attack that has hit 150 countries since Friday should be treated by governments around the world as a "wake-up call", Microsoft says. It blamed governments for storing data on software vulnerabilities which could then be accessed by hackers. It says the latest virus exploits a flaw in Microsoft Windows identified by, and stolen from, US intelligence. There are fears of more "ransomware" attacks as people begin work on Monday, although few have been reported so far. Live reports: Ransomware cyber-attack fallout Should you pay the WannaCry ransom? Many firms have had experts working over the weekend to prevent new infections. The virus took control of users' files and demanded $300 (£230) payments to restore access. The spread of the WannaCry ransomware attack slowed over the weekend but the respite might only be brief, experts have said. More than 200,000 computers have been affected so far. Read more: BBC analysis of three accounts linked to the ransom demands suggests about $38,000 (£29,400) had been paid by Monday morning. However, the ransomware warning said that the cost would double after three days, so the payments may increase. It threatens to delete files within seven days if no payment is made. The effect in Asian nations so far on Monday has been limited. South Korea said just nine cases of ransomware had been found, giving no further details. Technology explained: what is ransomware? Australian officials said so far only three small-to-medium sized businesses had reported being locked out of their systems while New Zealand's ministry of business said a small number of unconfirmed incidents were being investigated. In Japan, both Nissan and Hitachi reported some units had been affected, while in China energy giant PetroChina said that at some petrol stations customers had been unable to use its payment system. 'Like stealing Tomahawks' A statement from Microsoft president and chief legal officer Brad Smith on Sunday criticised the way governments store up information about security flaws in computer systems. "We have seen vulnerabilities stored by the CIA show up on WikiLeaks, and now this vulnerability stolen from the NSA has affected customers around the world," he wrote. Europol director Rob Wainwright warned that companies must patch their systems before Monday morning "An equivalent scenario with conventional weapons would be the US military having some of its Tomahawk missiles stolen." He added: "The governments of the world should treat this attack as a wake-up call." The organisation also said that many organisations had failed to keep their systems up to date, allowing the virus to spread. Microsoft said it had released a Windows security update in March to tackle the problem involved in the latest attack, but many users were yet to run it. "As cybercriminals become more sophisticated, there is simply no way for customers to protect themselves against threats unless they update their systems," Mr Smith said. Analysis: Dave Lee, BBC North America technology reporter There are going to be some tough questions on Monday for those institutions which didn't do enough to keep their networks secure, as well as the organisations that were best placed to stop it happening in the first place - the NSA and Microsoft. The NSA keeps a chest of cyberweapons to itself so it can hit targets, but Microsoft has long argued that this is dangerous. If there is a flaw in Windows, the company said, surely the safest thing to do is to let its team know straight away so it can be fixed. But then Microsoft also needs to consider what obligation it has to update all users - not just the ones who pay extra for security on older systems. Updating your computer if you're an individual is a piece of cake, but for a network the size of Britain's National Health Service? Tough - time-consuming, expensive and complex. For a company like Microsoft to say it won't keep those systems safe unless they shell out more money, then that in itself is something of a ransom. Meanwhile Europol's chief told the BBC the ransomware was designed to allow "infection of one computer to quickly spread across the networks", adding: "That's why we're seeing these numbers increasing all the time." Although a temporary fix earlier slowed the infection rate, the attackers had now released a new version of the virus, he said. A UK security researcher known as "MalwareTech", who helped to limit the ransomware attack, predicted "another one coming... quite likely on Monday". MalwareTech, whose name was revealed in UK media to be 22-year-old Marcus Hutchins, was hailed as an "accidental hero" after registering a domain name to track the spread of the virus, which actually ended up halting it. Becky Pinkard, from Digital Shadows, a UK-based cyber-security firm, told AFP news agency that it would be easy for the initial attackers or "copy-cat authors" to change the virus code so it is difficult to guard against. "Even if a fresh attack does not materialise on Monday, we should expect it soon afterwards," she said. In England, 48 National Health Service (NHS) trusts reported problems at hospitals, doctor surgeries or pharmacies, and 13 NHS organisations in Scotland were also affected. Other organisations targeted worldwide included Germany's rail network Deutsche Bahn, Spanish telecommunications operator Telefonica, French carmaker Renault, US logistics giant FedEx and Russia's Interior Ministry. Get news from the BBC in your inbox, each weekday morningRansomware advice service to tackle extortion gangs 25 July 2016 Ransomware may make a computer unusable until a ransom is paid European police agency Europol is teaming up with cybersecurity companies in an initiative aimed at slowing an "exponential" rise in ransomware. The scheme revolves around a website that connects victims and police, gives advice and helps with data recovery. The number of ransomware victims tripled in the first three months of 2016, according to one estimate. Ransomware is malware that typically demands a fee to unscramble important data on a compromised device. The No More Ransom site will be updated as ransomware gangs are tackled, one of the project's partners said. Co-ordinated by Europol, the initiative also involves the Dutch national police, Intel Security and Kaspersky Labs. "For a few years now ransomware has become a dominant concern for EU law enforcement," said Wil van Gemert, Europol's deputy director of operations. "We expect to help many people to recover control over their files, while raising awareness and educating the population on how to maintain their devices clean from malware." More victims No More Ransom brings together information about what ransomware is, how to avoid falling victim and what to do if a person or company is caught out. "Right now the only option victims have is to pay the ransom or not," said Raj Samani, European head of Intel Security. "This gives people another option." Often, people struggle to find out what they can do when they are hit. With this website, victims will be able to upload scrambled files to identify which strain of ransomware has locked up their data, he said. Many cyber-thieves using ransomware demand to be paid in bitcoins "We've seen a threefold increase in infected victims from January to March this year," he added. "And we're seeing a rise in new families of ransomware coming up all the time." In June, one site that tracks ransomware logged more than 120 separate families of the malicious code being used in different campaigns. "It's becoming a hugely profitable economy for the criminals," said Mr Samani. "They know there's real money to be made here. "What's particularly telling is that historically ransomware victims have been consumers and small businesses," he said. "But we are now seeing bigger institutions, hospitals and universities, getting hit." The site will be kept up to date with information gleaned from international action against gangs that run ransomware campaigns, Mr Samani said. Other police forces, security companies and researchers will be encouraged to contribute to the site and add advice or tools to help victims. At present, the site links to decryption software for four well-known families of ransomware - Coinvault, Shade, Rannoh and Rakhni.Three US hospitals hit by ransomware 23 March 2016 It is believed the hospital was hit by the Locky strain of malware The IT systems of three US hospitals have been infected with ransomware, which encrypts vital files and demands money to unlock them. The systems, at Kentucky Methodist Hospital, Chino Valley Medical Center and Desert Valley Hospital, California, are now running normally again. None of the hospitals is believed to have paid the ransom. And the cases are now being investigated by the FBI. Internal emergency Technology explained: what is ransomware? The Kentucky Methodist Hospital had to shut down all of its desktop computers and activate a back-up system. A message on its homepage said: "Methodist Hospital is currently working in an internal state of emergency due to a computer virus that has limited our use of electronic web-based services. "We are currently working to resolve this issue, until then we will have limited access to web-based services and electronic communications." It later said no patient data or care had been affected. Fred Ortega, a spokesman for Prime Healthcare Services, which owns Chino Valley Medical Center and Desert Valley Hospital, said: "It did cause significant disruptions of our IT systems. "However, most of the systems and the critical infrastructure has been brought back online." The attack comes weeks after it was revealed Hollywood Presbyterian Medical Centre in Los Angeles had been attacked by ransomware. In that case, it paid $17,000 to get access to files back. Ransomware growth Kentucky Methodist Hospital information systems director Jamie Reid named the malware involved as Locky, a new bug that encrypts files, documents and images and renames them with the extension .locky. The most common way Locky gets itself on machines is via a spam email with an attached document that looks like nonsense and advises readers to enable macros "if the data encoding is incorrect". Once the malware is downloaded, it sends a message to desktops with instructions about how users can pay to have files unlocked. In November, a report from Intel's McAfee labs said the number of ransomware attacks was expected to grow in 2016. Security expert Brian Krebs said: "It's a fair bet that as ransomware attacks and attackers mature, these schemes will slowly become more targeted. "I also worry that these more deliberate attackers will take a bit more time to discern how much the data they've encrypted is really worth, and precisely how much the victim might be willing to pay to get it back."Spike in ransomware spam prompts warnings 10 March 2016 Technology explained: what is ransomware? Security firms are warning about a sudden "huge" surge in junk mail messages containing ransomware. The surge is being blamed on the group behind a novel strain of ransomware called Locky. One security firm reported that a version of Locky produced two weeks ago is now the second most prevalent form of ransomware it sees. The US, France and Japan were the top targets for the gang behind Locky, statistics suggested. Peak spam Like many other ransomware programs, Locky encrypts data on an infected machine and then asks for a payment before providing a decryption key. Currently Locky asks for 3 bitcoins (£885) as payment. The first versions of Locky hid the malicious attachment that did the encrypting in add-ons or macros for Microsoft Word. Now, say security firms, its creators have switched to using attachments written in Javascript. "We are currently seeing extraordinary (sic) huge volumes of Javascript attachments being spammed out," said Rodel Mendrez, a security expert at Trustwave in a blogpost . The switch to Javascript has helped Locky avoid being spotted by anti-virus software, said Trustwave. At peak spamming times, wrote Mr Mendrez, about 200,000 messages an hour carrying ransomware attachments were hitting its junk mail spotting servers. Security firm Fortinet said it had caught almost 19 million copies of ransomware emails over the last two weeks. The latest version of Locky using the Javascript attachment accounted for 16.5% of this total, said Roland Dela Paz in a blogpost . The most prevalent ransomware family in that total was Cryptowall which was found in 83.5% of the ransomware emails it had caught. Cryptowall first appeared in early 2014. The spam surge had helped establish Locky as a "significant presence" in the ransomware world, said Mr Dela Paz. The attackers sending out large amounts of Locky spam were using the same network of hijacked computers, known as a botnet, that was used to distribute the Dridex banking trojan. "It's the same botnet, different day, and different payload," said Mr Mendrez. To avoid falling victim, people and companies should regularly back up data so it can be restored if a machine gets infected, he said.New ransomware strain coded entirely in Javascript 20 June 2016 The script is disguised as a document Security researchers have discovered a new strain of ransomware coded entirely in Javascript, which could increase its chances of being activated. Unlike executable program files, Javascript documents do not always trigger a security warning on Windows or require administrator access to run. Named RAA, the malware is disguised as a document and starts encrypting files immediately when opened. One security expert said the approach was likely to fool many victims. "It's an interesting approach to ransomware," said Ken Munro of security company Pen Test Partners. "Using Javascript as an attachment to an email is likely to result in many victims accidentally installing it." The RAA ransomware was discovered by security researchers known as Benkow and JamesWT. It is sent to victims by email and if opened on a Windows machine uses the "Windows Based Script Host" to run its code. Technology explained: what is ransomware? Typically an executable program such as an .exe or .bat file would be automatically screened and blocked by the operating system, but Windows allows .js files to run. If opened, the ransomware sets about encrypting the victim's files and displays a ransom note written in Russian. It demands a fee of $250 (£171) for the files to be restored. In April, Microsoft reported that it had seen an increase in malware being spread through Javascript email attachments. "It is interesting to note that an Office attachment with malicious macros typically requires two or more clicks on the document to run it. One click to open the document and another click to enable the macros," the firm said in a blog post. "On the other hand, the Javascript attachments only take one or two clicks to start executing." Protection Mr Munro said people should avoid opening attachments from unknown sources to stay safe. "The .js (Javascript) file type is automatically blocked in some email packages, particularly Outlook," said Mr Munro. "But interestingly Gmail doesn't appear to block it. Don't open unknown attachments, particularly those with a .js extension. "While we're there, don't open macro enabled Office docs either (such as .docm and .xlsm files) - and keep your anti-virus right up to date." Additionally, Windows can be instructed not to start the "Windows Based Script Host" when a .js file is double-clicked. Virus blog Bleeping Computer reports that there is currently no way to reverse the RAA encryption without paying the ransom. Often, restoring files from a back-up copy is the only way to get files back without paying - although some examples of ransomware have been cracked.Cyber attack: No customer or staff data stolen, Flagship Group says 24 November 2020 Flagship Group experienced an IT systems data breach on 1 November An initial internal investigation into a cyber attack on a housing firm found no evidence customer or staff data was stolen. Flagship Group, based in Norwich, said the attack took "most of our group's systems offline". It said a suspected phishing or ransomware attack on 1 November caused "considerable disruption" to staff and customer services. The firm said other independent investigations were ongoing. The attack was reported to the Regulator of Social Housing , the National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) and the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO). The NCSC and the ICO have not yet reported the findings of their investigations. In a statement, Flagship said its IT systems were now "in a stage of carefully controlled recovery". The firm said it had also offered fraud and web monitoring services to its customers and staff "for added piece of mind". Flagship Group owns some 31,000 homes in the East of England and employs 1,200 people in its facilities, repairs, maintenance and heating departments. In 2017-18, it had an annual turnover of £133.7m. It has tenants in Norfolk, Suffolk, Cambridge and Essex and also builds and sells houses to private owners. Find BBC News: East of England on Facebook , Instagram and Twitter . If you have a story suggestion email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.ukEleven of 14 NHS health boards hit by ransomware cyber-attack 12 May 2017 Images such as this one in England are believed to have appeared on computer screens at Scottish health facilities Eleven of Scotland's 14 NHS health boards have been hit by a cyber-attack linked to IT attacks around the world. The only boards not to be affected are Lothian, Orkney and Shetland. The first minister chaired a meeting of the Scottish government's resilience committee on Friday evening to review the situation. A second meeting is planned for 07:00 on Saturday. Nicola Sturgeon said the government was taking immediate steps "to minimise the impact on patients". The health boards which have been affected are: The Scottish Ambulance Service has also been affected. The incidents are thought to be part of a wider attack affecting organisations around the world. The Scottish government said most incidents had been confined to desktop computers in GP surgeries, dental practices and other primary care centres. A spokesman said the only acute hospital sites so far affected had been in NHS Lanarkshire. First Minister Nicola Sturgeon said there was "no evidence" that patient data had been compromised. She said: "All necessary steps are being taken to ensure that the cause and nature of this attack is identified. "Our priority is to ensure that boards get all the support required to identify the full extent of any problems, and return IT systems to normal as soon as possible, so there is as little impact on patient care as possible. "I would like to thank all of the NHS staff who are continuing to work hard to ensure that the impact of this attack is kept to an absolute minimum. "I have complete confidence that they will continue to provide the excellent care for which they are famous." GPs 'have no idea what drugs people are on' Dr Emma Fardon, a GP in Dundee, told the BBC: "It became very obvious at around 1pm. I came back from house visits to find all our computers hit by the virus. "It was the red display asking for the money.  We can't access any patient records. "Everything is fully computerised. We have no idea what drugs people are on or the allergies they have. We can't access the appointments system. "We've had to try and phone as many people to rearrange their appointments to next week. "It's had a massively disruptive effect. We can't process any documents, can't issue prescriptions, or look up results. "We're trying to accommodate who we can. We are still seeing people who really need it. "We've had glitches in the past but I've never seen anything as bad as this. We've no idea how long it will last for." NHS Lanarkshire closed down its non-essential IT network and urged patients only to attend A&E in an emergency. The board said in a statement: "NHS Lanarkshire, along with other boards across the UK, is currently experiencing ransomware attack to its IT network. "IT specialists are working to resolve the matter as quickly as possible. "As a precaution, NHS Lanarkshire is closing down its non-essential networked IT systems on a temporary basis. "All our sites remain open, however, we are appealing to members of the public only to attend hospital for emergency treatment during this period." NHS staff in plea for public support Frances Dodd, Nurse Director for Acute Services at NHS Lanarkshire tweeted a message calling for public support. She said: "We are working very hard to resolve this situation as quickly as possible and return our systems to normal as quickly as possible. "But we would urge the support of the public at this time to really help us in trying to mitigate and reduce the risk." She also told BBC Scotland that staff were unable to access patients' medical histories, so urged anyone going into North Lanarkshire's Wishaw, Monklands and Hairmyres hospitals this weekend to take all their medication with them. NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde said four GP practices had experienced disruption to their IT systems but elsewhere it was unaffected. NHS Tayside said 10 GP practices in the region, which were not using an NHS Tayside IT system, were having problems. A spokeswoman said: "No NHS Tayside systems or hospital sites have been affected by today's UK-wide cyber attack. There is no impact on NHS Tayside's emergency departments or out-of-hours service. "However, we are aware that the IT systems at 10 GP practices across Tayside, which operate on a non-NHS Tayside system, have been affected. Our eHealth team is working with the GPs to resolve the issue as soon as possible." Analysis - What is ransomware? Technology explained: what is ransomware? By Chris Baraniuk, BBC technology reporter Software that locks a computer and demands payment before allowing access again - ransomware - is one of the world's biggest growing cyber-threats. It certainly looks like that is what has hit the NHS in this case - and one IT firm says 11 of its NHS customers have been affected. Screenshots shared online purportedly from NHS staff, show a program demanding $300 (£230) in Bitcoin that looks similar to ransomware known as WannaCryptor or WCry . There's no indication of who is behind the attack yet, nor do we know exactly how it infected NHS systems. But hospitals have been targeted with similar software before - it struck three US hospitals last year . NHS Borders said three community sites had been affected. A spokesman said: "The networks have been isolated, software has been shut down and there is no immediate risk to patient care or confidentiality. "All other NHS Borders services are currently operating as normal." A spokesman for NHS Dumfries and Galloway said: "Three GP practices have been initially affected and we are taking precautionary measures to prevent any others being affected." He declined the name the practices involved and said the board was "comfortable and confident" with the steps taken but added "we don't know what we're dealing with". He added: "We are monitoring the situation here as are all health boards in Scotland." NHS Fife said the attack had affected "a small non-operational area" of its system. Patient records A spokeswoman said: "This area has been isolated and taken off the network. "Staff continue to be able to access patient records and clinical systems are unaffected. It is important to note that out of hours services remain open and available as normal and patient care is unaffected. "We have taken guidance from Scottish government on how to protect ourselves from any spread and we are also undertaking further preventative work." Western Isles health board reported some disruption, though the extent was not clear. NHS Forth Valley confirmed that some of its services had also been affected. In a statement the health board said: "We can confirm that a small number of GP and dental practices in the Forth Valley area have experienced disruption to their it systems which may be linked to the wider IT issues affecting parts of NHS England. "Steps have been taken to isolate their IT systems to minimise the risk of any virus spreading to other parts of the NHS. "The practices affected remain open and have put in place contingency arrangements." Cyber criminals are demanding payment in the online bitcoin currency to unlock computer systems An NHS Western Isles spokeswoman said: "We can confirm that we have been affected but can't confirm to what extent at the moment. "We do have systems in place to cover all emergencies." Meanwhile, ScottishPower said that it had taken measures to ensure its IT services were not affected. A spokesman said: "Due to an issue at an external company, ScottishPower has taken precautionary steps to ensure that our IT systems are fully secure. We continue to monitor the situation." In England, GP surgeries and hospitals in London, Blackburn, Nottingham, Cumbria and Hertfordshire were among those whose computer systems were affected. Staff were unable to access patient data, which has been encrypted by ransomware that hit NHS networks. There was no evidence patient data had been compromised. Are you a staff or a patient in the NHS? Have you been affected by this? If you are willing to do so, share with us by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk . Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also contact us in the following ways:Gaming ransomware gang releases master decryption key 20 May 2016 Technology explained: what is ransomware? The gang who made the notorious Teslacrypt ransomware virus has shut up shop and released the master key it used to scramble data. The key has been used to to make a free decryption tool that can unscramble files encrypted by the malware. It means many of those hit by the malware will be able to recover data without paying a ransom. It is not yet clear why the gang behind Teslacrypt decided to stop using their malware. Rival hack The Teslacrypt ransomware targeted gamers and, on infected machines, sought to encrypt more than 185 different types of files associated with popular games such as Call of Duty, Minecraft and World of Tanks. Victims could get their files decrypted by paying a ransom of up to $1,000 (£690). Over the past few weeks, researchers from security firm Eset noticed that the malware was being spammed out far less than usual. Many of the underground distributors of Teslacrypt were swapping to use a different ransomware family called CryptXXX. Eset sent a message to the hackers behind Teslacrypt via the technical support address given on the payment page the malware displays on infected machines. In the message, Eset asked for a copy of the master encryption key. To its surprise, it got a reply in which the hackers said the project was now "closed". In the body of the short message was the master encryption key used to scramble files on infected machines. The message ended: "We are sorry!" In a blogpost , Eset said it was "surprised" that the hackers had released the key so others can make a decryption tool. Paul Ducklin from security firm Sophos said it was "unusual" for cyber-thieves to give away their secret key. "Only victims who have been hit recently and haven't yet paid up, or victims who backed up their already-encrypted data "just in case", will get much use out of the master key at this stage," he wrote . Mr Ducklin speculated about why the hackers had decided to stop sending out their ransomware. Perhaps, he said, the gang had been hacked by rivals who released the key to ruin the business of a competitor.Easy-to-use ransomware code discovered 4 January 2016 The malicious code has been written with the language many use to make websites Cyber-thieves have turned to web programming languages to create a cheap ransomware service. On infected machines, ransomware encrypts data and frees it only when victims pay for it to be unscrambled. Technology explained: what is ransomware? Many gangs making ransomware keep the code for themselves, but Ransom32 is freely downloadable from one dark web site. News site BleepingComputer said Windows users had been targeted by the malware over the Christmas period. Ransom32 was designed for those that lacked the technological skill to create their own brands of malware, said Bleeping computer editor Lawrence Abrams. The malicious program and its administration system are written in HTML, CSS and Javascript - languages more usually used to create mainstream websites. It is believed to be the first virus written with these languages. The malware can be downloaded from the dark web by anyone who supplies a Bitcoin wallet number, The malware's developers take a 25% cut of any ransom collected and forward the rest on to the Bitcoin wallet supplied. Lost data Victims who unwittingly download the malware can be locked out of their computers and asked to pay a ransom in bitcoins to get back in. The malware looks for and scrambles a huge variety of files including images, movies, documents and data archives. Those who do not pay up could have their hard drives wiped. Ransom32 locks users out of their computers and demands a ransom before owners are let back in Security expert Graham Cluley told the BBC: "By turning their ransomware into a sellable service, the criminals behind Ransom32 are providing an opportunity for other hackers to easily launch attacks that will encrypt users' documents, including personal photographs, movies and more." "They demand payment via anonymous Bitcoin to ensure the safe return of the otherwise unrecoverable data." Those who use Ransom32 control it via a basic administration panel, that allows them to configure the malware to their liking. The bug's developers even offer them advice on fraud strategies, in one instance suggesting: "Don't be too greedy or people will not pay." In a blog post , Fabian Wosar of security company Emsisoft said users' best line of defence was "a solid" strategy for backing up files. That way, should the worst happen, they can recover data without having to pay the ransom. Mr Cluley added: "Presently, the attack appears to have been distributed via email, so once again users are advised to exercise great caution over what they run on their computers - especially if it arrives via unsolicited email."