Iran 'hides spyware in wallpaper, restaurant and games apps' Gordon Corera @gordoncorera 8 February Check Point said spyware was hidden in restaurant and wallpaper apps, among others Iran is running two surveillance operations in cyber-space, targeting more than 1,000 dissidents, according to a leading cyber-security company. The efforts were directed against individuals in Iran and 12 other countries, including the UK and US, Check Point said. It said the two groups involved were using new techniques to install spyware on targets' PCs and mobile devices. And this was then being used to steal call recordings and media files. One of the groups, known as Domestic Kitten or APT-50, is accused of tricking people into downloading malicious software on to mobile phones by a variety of means including: The American-Israeli company's researchers documented 1,200 victims being targeted by the campaign, living in seven countries. There had been more than 600 successful infections, it said. The second group, known as Infy or Prince Of Persia, is said to spy on the home and work PCs of dissidents in 12 countries, extracting sensitive data after tricking people into opening malicious email attachments. The Iranian government has not commented on the report. Furball malware Domestic Kitten's operation was first identified in 2018. And Check Point said there was evidence it had run at least 10 campaigns since 2017. Four of these were still active, with the most recent beginning in November 2020. And it was using an Iranian blog site, Telegram channels and text messages to lure people into installing its infected software, which the researchers have dubbed Furball, which could: The 600 successful infections are said to have included dissidents, opposition forces and people belonging to the Kurdish ethnic minority in: The other group, Infy, is said to have been operating as far back as 2007. Its most recent activity had targeted PCs, with fake emails with attractive content, usually with an attached document, Check Point said. One example provided was of a document apparently about loans being offered to disabled veterans. One infected document appeared to be from the Iranian-government-sponsored Foundation of Martyrs and Veterans Affairs Once the document was opened, a spying tool was installed and sensitive data stolen, the company said. Two documents recently used are said to have included a photo of an Iranian governor, with alleged contact details. The researchers said Infy's capabilities were "far superior" to most other known Iranian campaigns, thanks to its ability to be highly selective about its targets and to have generally have gone undetected. "It is clear that the Iranian government is investing significant resources into cyber-operations," Check Point cyber-research head Yaniv Balmas said. "The operators of these Iranian cyber-espionage campaigns seem to be completely unaffected by any counter-activities done by others, even though both campaigns had been revealed and even stopped in the past. "They have simply restarted."Al Jazeera journalists ‘hacked via NSO Group spyware’ 21 December 2020 Dozens of Al Jazeera journalists were targeted in the attack, researchers allege Dozens of Al Jazeera journalists were allegedly hacked with the help of spyware developed by Israeli firm NSO Group, cyber-security researchers say. Details of the alleged hack targeting 36 members of staff, including TV anchors and executives, have been published in a report by Citizen Lab at the University of Toronto . It says a vulnerability in iPhone operating system software was used. NSO Group has denied the allegation, saying it “lacks any evidence". Citizen Lab researchers say they concluded with “medium confidence” that two attackers who had spied on the phones of Al Jazeera journalists were doing so on behalf of the Saudi Arabian and UAE governments. “The phones were compromised using an exploit chain that we call Kismet,” the researchers write. In July 2020, Kismet was a "zero-day" attack - meaning Apple was supposedly unaware of the flaw - and it worked on at least iOS 13.5.1, and could hack Apple’s iPhone 11, the latest model at the time. Pegasus spyware Citizen Lab was first alerted to potential spying activity on the journalists’ phones when contacted by Tamer Almisshal, an investigative filmmaker at Al Jazeera. Mr Almisshal had expressed concerns that his iPhone had been hacked and so allowed Citizen Lab to monitor activity on the device. “We noticed that on 19 July 2020, his phone visited a website that we had detected in our internet scanning as an Installation Server for NSO Group’s Pegasus spyware, which is used in the process of infecting a target with Pegasus,” the Citizen Lab researchers allege in their report. Hitting back at the allegations, a spokesman for NSO Group said: “This memo is based once again on speculation and lacks any evidence supporting a connection to NSO.” He added that the firm provided software to governments, who used it tackle serious organised crime and terrorism, and did not operate the software itself. NSO Group would continue “to work tirelessly to make the world a safer place”, he added. The exploit described by the Citizen Lab team fails to work on iPhones running iOS 14, the latest version. Users should update to this version immediately, the researchers said. A spokesman for Apple added that iOS 14 was “a major leap forward” in protecting against such attacks. “The attack described in the research was highly targeted by nation states against specific individuals,” he said. “We always urge customers to download the latest version of the software to protect themselves and their data.” The BBC has contacted Al Jazeera and the London embassies of Saudi Arabia and the UAE for comment.NSO Group: Israeli firm 'impersonated Facebook to spread spyware' 21 May 2020 Israeli security company NSO Group impersonated Facebook as part of a ploy to get users to install its phone-hacking software, a new report alleges. An investigation from news site Motherboard claims a Facebook security lookalike domain was set up to spread NSO's Pegasus hacking tool. It also claimed to have found evidence that servers inside the United States were used to spread the spying tool. NSO denies the allegations, labelling them "recycled conjecture". The Pegasus spyware, once installed, can read text messages and other data on the phone, track its location with GPS, and access the microphone and camera. The Israeli firm is already locked in a legal battle with Facebook, which alleges it deliberately spread its software over WhatsApp, compromising hundreds of phones - including those of journalists and human rights activists. It is also, separately, accused of supplying software to the Saudi government which was allegedly used to spy on journalist Jamal Khashoggi before he was killed. Facebook's complaint alleged NSO operated the spyware itself. But NSO has asked the court in California to dismiss the case, in part because it says it never uses its spyware - only sovereign governments do. Motherboard's latest investigation revolves around a former NSO employee who, it is claimed, provided it with details of a server allegedly designed to distribute the spyware by tricking people into clicking links. The server investigated was connected to several different web addresses over a number of years - including one that impersonated Facebook's security team, the Motherboard report claims. Facebook told the BBC it had gained ownership of the domain in question four years ago, to stop it being misused. Other domains used over time included "a link a person could click on to unsubscribe themselves from emails or text messages... and package tracking links from FedEx," Motherboard reports. 'Tackling terrorism' But NSO fiercely denies that it has ever used its products itself. "We are incredibly proud of our technology's role in tackling crime and terrorism, but NSO does not operate any of its products," a spokesman said in a statement. "As we have repeatedly made clear, NSO products are offered to and operated solely by verified and authorised government agencies." Motherboard also alleged that one of the servers used to launch the malware was located within the United States - something that NSO says is not possible. Facebook has previously made similar allegations in the WhatsApp legal case. "We stand by our previous statements that NSO Group products cannot be used to conduct cyber-surveillance within the United States, and no customer has ever been granted technology that enables targeting phones with US numbers," a spokesman said. Prof Alan Woodward from the University of Surrey said the possibility of US-based servers being used to deploy the spyware raised "more questions than answers". "They appear to have some sort of infrastructure in the US," Prof Woodward said. "The question is whether the US government is aware of it." A Facebook spokesperson said: "NSO Group is responsible for cyber-attacks against human rights activists, journalists, and diplomats, in violation of US law. "We are committed to protecting the security of our community and are seeking to hold them accountable in court." NSO said its official stance remained that which it had put forward in the legal case with Facebook. "Revisiting and recycling the conjecture of NSO's detractors... doesn't change the overall truth of our position, which we have stated to the US Federal Court in California," it said. "Factual assertions on all the above have been provided as part of the official court record, and we do not have anything else to add at this time."Coronavirus: Israeli spyware firm pitches to be Covid-19 saviour Rory Cellan-Jones @BBCRoryCJ 2 April 2020 A controversial Israeli cyber-security company is marketing software that uses mobile phone data to monitor and predict the spread of the coronavirus. NSO Group says it is in talks with governments around the world, and claims some are already testing it. The surveillance software-maker is being sued by WhatsApp for allegedly sending malware to the phones of human rights activists and journalists. It has denied that allegation "in the strongest possible terms" . The company also faces a lawsuit in which it is accused of supplying software to the Saudi government, which the country is said to have used to spy on the journalist Jamal Khashoggi before his murder. Last year, NSO responded to that claim by saying that its products were "licensed for the sole use of providing governments and law enforcement agencies the ability to lawfully fight terrorism and crime". But now, it is pitching its tools as a means to help better understand how coronavirus is spreading. "The software is here to solve a global pandemic," a spokesman told the BBC. "This is about giving governments the ability to understand the situation they're facing and make informed decisions. It's a really powerful piece of software." NSO says its employees will not have access to any data, but its software will work best if a government asks local mobile phone operators to provide the records of every subscriber in the country. Each person known to be infected with Covid-19 could then be tracked, with the people they had met and the places they had visited, even before showing symptoms, plotted on a map. Israel's defence minister tweeted this image of NSO's user interface last week But John Scott Railton, of the Toronto-based privacy watchdog Citizen Lab, said governments would be foolish to use the system. "The last thing that we need is a secretive company claiming to solve a pandemic while refusing to say who its clients are," he said. Cluster forecasts NSO gave the BBC a demonstration of how its system works, via a video conference link. A heat map of Israel showed hotspots where there were a high number of cases of the virus. Zooming in, individual phones of people with the infection were mapped, and represented by an anonymised ID number. Details were also shown of other phones they had encountered and the relevant times and locations. The engineer demonstrating the system said that it could be used to: NSO said a number of governments around the world were piloting the system, but would not reveal their identity or whether any of them had started using it in the field. A spokesman added that the firm had made it a requirement that the authorities involved were operating in compliance with Europe's GDPR privacy law or their own data protection rules. Software requiring mobile networks to hand over customer data represents a very different approach from the contact-tracing apps being considered in the UK and many other European countries. Such apps, would use a phone's Bluetooth connection to alert users if they had been in contact with someone infected with the virus, and would almost certainly be voluntary to download. Citizen Lab previously investigated NSO's Pegasus software. It found evidence that it had been secretly installed on the phones of journalists and dissidents in countries from Mexico to the Middle East. "NSO has shown that it is uniquely capable of damaging public trust," said Mr Railton. "I can't think of a better brand name to make citizens nervous about a governmental tracking effort." There has been controversy in Israel over a separate project which could see its defence ministry work with NSO Group to assess the likelihood that individual citizens might spread the coronavirus. Defence minister Naftali Bennet proposed giving NSO access to highly sensitive data about citizens collected by the Shin Bet security services. But Israeli lawmakers attacked the plan, warning that handing data to a private company raised serious concerns.WhatsApp: Indians among those 'targeted' by spyware 31 October 2019 WhatsApp has 1.5bn users, but it believed the attacks were highly-targeted Messaging app WhatsApp has said Indian journalists and activists are among some 1,400 people worldwide who were targeted with Israeli-made spyware. WhatsApp filed a lawsuit against NSO Group on Wednesday, alleging it was behind cyber-attacks that infected devices in April and May. The Israeli company, which makes software for surveillance, has strongly disputed the allegations. India has 400 million WhatsApp users, making the country its biggest market. Hackers were able to remotely install surveillance software on phones and other devices by using a major vulnerability in the messaging app. "We believe this attack targeted at least 100 members of civil society, which is an unmistakable pattern of abuse," WhatsApp said in a statement. After discovering the cyber-attacks in May, WhatsApp quickly rolled out a fix, adding "new protections" to their systems and issuing updates. Cyber experts at Toronto-based internet watchdog Citizen Lab helped WhatsApp identify cases where the suspected targets of this attack were members of civil society, such as human rights defenders or journalists. Citizen Lab said it had identified more than 100 cases of "abusive targeting of human rights defenders and journalists in at least 20 countries across the globe, ranging from Africa, Asia, Europe, the Middle East, and North America". India has 400 million WhatsApp users, making the country the service's biggest market. "Indian journalists and human rights activists have been the target of surveillance and while I cannot reveal their identities and the exact number, I can say that it is not an insignificant number," WhatsApp spokesperson Carl Woog told The Indian Express newspaper. Mr Woog said the service had contacted each of the people targeted and informed them about the cyber attack. WhatsApp promotes itself as a "secure" communications app because messages are encrypted end-to-end. This means they should only be displayed in a legible form on the sender or recipient's device. The firm, which was acquired by Facebook in 2014, said this was the first time an encrypted messaging provider had taken legal action of this kind. Israel's NSO Group said it would fight the allegations. "In the strongest possible terms, we dispute today's allegations and will vigorously fight them," the company said in a statement to the BBC. "The sole purpose of NSO is to provide technology to licensed government intelligence and law enforcement agencies to help them fight terrorism and serious crime."Lenovo and ZTE shares hit by spyware row 5 October 2018 Shares in Chinese tech giants Lenovo and ZTE have fallen sharply after a media report that Beijing had inserted spying devices into US computers. Unnamed US national security officials, quoted by Bloomberg, said microchips were found in gadgets used by US government agencies. Lenovo's shares fell more than 15%, while ZTE lost more than 10%. Lenovo said it did not source parts from Super Micro, the firm at the centre of the allegations. ZTE has declined to comment. According to the report, Super Micro is said to have supplied servers that allegedly contained the malicious hardware. Tiny chips on its server circuit boards had been used to siphon off data, the news agency said. Super Micro has rejected Bloomberg's claims , calling them "untrue". Apple and Amazon have also denied that their computer systems were among those reportedly containing the devices. ZTE is one of China's leading state-owned companies and has long laboured under suspicions that the use of its equipment and services poses a security threat to Western nations. In July, Washington lifted an order that blocked ZTE from doing business with US companies. Lenovo is the world's biggest maker of desktop computers, having bought IBM's loss-making PC unit in 2005. In 2014, it acquired another chunk of IBM, snapping up its low-end server business.Data-stealing spyware 'traced to Lebanon' 19 January 2018 Malware in messaging apps has been stealing data from activists, lawyers and military personnel A security bug that has infected thousands of smartphones has been uncovered by campaign group the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF). Working with mobile security firm Lookout, researchers discovered that malware in fake messaging designed to look like WhatsApp and Signal had stolen gigabytes of data. Targets included military personnel, activists, journalists and lawyers. Researchers say they traced the malware to a Lebanese government building. The threat, dubbed Dark Caracal by the researchers, looks as if it could come from a nation state and appears to use shared infrastructure linked to other nation-state hackers, the report said. The malware takes advantage of known exploits and targets mainly Android phones. Data was traced back to a server in a building belonging to the Lebanese General Security Directorate in Beirut, according to researchers. "Based on the available evidence, it is likely that the GDGS is associated with or directly supporting the actors behind Dark Caracal," the report said. Mobile threat "People in the US, Canada, Germany, Lebanon, and France have been hit by Dark Caracal. Targets include military personnel, activists, journalists, and lawyers, and the types of stolen data range from call records and audio recordings to documents and photos," said EFF director of cybersecurity Eva Galperin. "This is a very large, global campaign, focused on mobile devices. Mobile is the future of spying, because phones are full of so much data about a person's day-to-day life." Mike Murray, vice-president of security intelligence at Lookout said: "Dark Caracal is part of a trend we've seen mounting over the past year whereby traditional advanced persistent threat actors are moving toward using mobile as a primary target platform." Online mercenaries In a statement published on the Lookout blog, Google said it was confident that the infected apps were not downloaded from its Play Store. "Google has identified the apps associated with this actor, none of the apps were on the Google Play Store. Google Play Protect has been updated to protect user devices from these apps and is in the process of removing them from all affected devices." The researchers believe Dark Caracal has been operating since 2012 but it has been hard to track because of the diversity of seemingly unrelated espionage campaigns originating from the same domain names. Over the years Dark Caracal's work has been repeatedly misattributed to other cybercrime groups, the researchers said. In November, Afghanistan moved to ban WhatsApp and Telegram as a way to stop insurgent groups from using encrypted messaging. And in December, Iran moved to restrict use of the apps after a series of anti-establishment protests. Use of an app that can steal data would give nation states much more information than simply banning them, said Prof Alan Woodward, a cybersecurity expert at the University of Surrey. "It is always hard to prove that a nation state is involved. During the Cold War, countries made use of mercenaries and that's what we are seeing online now." He said it was unclear where the infected apps had been downloaded from. "Google is saying that they were not downloaded from there but it is difficult to know where else they came from. It may be that people are getting suckered into something that looks like an official site. People need to be careful what they are downloading."Dark web sting leads to arrest of alleged spyware thief 6 July 2018 NSO software is believed to have helped get past security measures on Apple iPhones A programmer who allegedly tried to sell stolen surveillance tools worth $50m (£38m) on the dark web has been caught and charged in Israel. The software was reportedly stolen from a security firm called NSO Group, known for creating surveillance software. The former NSO developer is believed to have stolen the code after learning he was going to be sacked. Israel's Justice Ministry said if the sale had gone ahead it could have harmed state security. Security cracked In a statement, the ministry said the accused was a senior programmer at NSO who had access to the firm's development systems including its stores of source code. The ministry said once the programmer had downloaded company code, he posed as a hacker and sought to sell the software on dark web markets. It is claimed that he asked for a payment of $50m to be made in crypto-cash to make it harder to trace. The unidentified individual who agreed to buy the software contacted NSO before the deal went ahead. A sting was set up and the suspected thief was arrested. Daily newspaper Israel Hayom reported that the indictment against the former NSO employee said: "The defendant's ‎actions seriously jeopardised the NSO Group and ‎could have led to its collapse." The programmer has been charged with theft, intent to compromise national security, pursuing an unlicensed defence transaction and disruption of a computer system. A statement released by the defendant's legal team said its client "never tried to undermine national security". They added: ‎"We believe the court will get to the truth in this ‎case. We will prove these allegations to be ‎disproportionate and baseless." NSO ‎Group came to prominence in 2016 after being accused of creating software that can overcome security protections on Apple iPhones. NSO software has also been implicated in a long-running spyware scandal in Mexico. In response, NSO has said it only sells to authorised agencies and has no control over the way its tools are used.Mexico spyware scandal: Opposition politicians 'targeted' 29 June 2017 The Mexican president recently denied his government was involved in the installation of spyware Three senior opposition politicians in Mexico have been targeted by spyware on their mobile phones, researchers say. An internet watchdog based in Canada, Citizen Lab, said the surveillance software is only sold to governments. Last week, Citizen Lab also said that 12 journalists and human rights lawyers had been targeted. At the time, the Mexican President, Enrique Peña Nieto, described accusations that the government was involved as false. Mr Peña Nieto said surveillance software was only used for matters of national security and for fighting organised crime. He added that he had ordered an investigation by the attorney general's office. Citizen Lab said the head of the Conservative National Action Party (PAN), Ricardo Anaya, a PAN Senator, Roberto Gil Zuarth, and the party's communications secretary, Fernando Rodriguez, were targeted. "There is strong circumstantial evidence implicating the government of Mexico", the watchdog said. The software, known as Pegasus, was sold to Mexican federal agencies by the Israeli company NSO Group on the condition that it only be used to investigate criminals and terrorists. It is usually sent in a text message to a smartphone. If the person taps on it, the spyware is installed, and huge amounts of private data - text messages, photos, emails, location data, even what is being picked up by the device's microphone and camera - are hacked.Mexico students: Pegasus spyware 'used on foreign investigators' 11 July 2017 A march in Mexico City in June marking the 33rd month since the 43 students disappeared International experts investigating the suspected abduction and murder of 43 students in Mexico three years ago were targeted with government spyware, an internet watchdog says. The Israeli-made spyware was only sold to governments, according to Citizen Lab, which is based in Canada. Mexican journalists, human rights activists and opposition politicians have made similar allegations. Mexico's government denies using the spyware to snoop on its opponents. It says it has only used intelligence tools in the interest of national security or to fight organised crime. The students, from an all-male college in the southern town of Ayotzinapa , were declared dead after disappearing in 2014 in the south-western state of Guerrero. Their relatives have accused the authorities of a cover-up. Some Mexicans have held out hope that members of the group may yet be found alive. Who are the latest alleged targets? The foreign experts, convened by the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights, were called in to investigate the disappearance of the students. The team has repeatedly accused the Mexican government of blocking their work. Citizen Lab, which is based at the University of Toronto, says in its analysis that it has found forensic evidence to show that the investigators' mobile phones were being targeted by Israeli-made spyware. One member, Spanish investigator Carlos Beristain, said the attempt to install spyware could be a "more serious crime given the diplomatic protected status" the group held. Attempts to infect their devices reportedly took place in March 2016, shortly after the group accused the Mexican government of hampering its inquiry , and as they were preparing a final report. How does the spyware work? The software, known as Pegasus, was sold to Mexican federal agencies by the Israeli company NSO Group on the condition that it only be used to investigate criminals and terrorists. It is usually sent in a text message to a smartphone. If the person taps on it, the spyware is installed, and huge amounts of private data - including text messages, photos, emails, location data, the device's microphone and camera - are hacked. Mexican journalist Carmen Aristegui is another alleged target; she says her investigative team and under-age son also received messages One message sent to investigators in March was from someone pretending to pass on personal information about a funeral. "Here are the details. I hope you can come," it read. According to the New York Times , the same link was sent last year to an academic trying to impose a sugar tax in Mexico and, in that case, the message was confirmed as a Pegasus trick. Mr Beristain said he had received the message but had not opened it as he suspected some form of espionage. Who are the missing students'? On the evening of 26 September 2014, a group of 43 Mexican students disappeared in Guerrero. They had been studying at an all-male teacher training college that has a history of left-wing activism. Relatives and activists holding up portraits of the missing at one of the many protests Before they disappeared, the students reportedly clashed with municipal police while on their way to a protest. Police opened fire on their buses . According to the official government report, the group was then handed over by corrupt officers to members of a local drugs gang. The government version of events says their bodies were burnt in a fire at a rubbish dump. Authorities identified one student, Alexander Mora, from charred bone they said they had found at the site, and they partially identified another. The international investigators have disputed the fire theory, saying they have yet to find sufficient evidence. The Mexican attorney general has declared them all dead but their relatives still want proof of what happened that night, and justice. The case is so well known in the country and across Latin America that the students are widely known simply as "The 43".Apple Mac computers targeted by ransomware and spyware By Mark Ward 13 June 2017 Apple Mac computers are being targeted by two types of malware being spread on the "dark web" Mac users are being warned about new variants of malware that have been created specifically to target Apple computers. One is ransomware that encrypts data and demands payment before files are released. The other is spyware that watches what users do and scoops up valuable information. Experts said they represented a threat because their creators were letting anyone use them for free. The two programs were uncovered by the security firms Fortinet and AlienVault, which found a portal on the Tor "dark web" network that acted as a shopfront for both. In a blog, Fortinet said the site claimed that the creators behind it were professional software engineers with "extensive experience" of creating working code. Those wishing to use either of the programs had been urged to get in touch and provide details of how they wanted the malware to be set up. The malware's creators had said that payments made by ransomware victims would be split between themselves and their customers. Researchers at Fortinet contacted the ransomware writers pretending they were interested in using the product and, soon afterwards, were sent a sample of the malware. Analysis revealed that it used much less sophisticated encryption than the many variants seen targeting Windows machines, said the firm. NHS computers were hit by a high-profile ransomware attack last month However, they added, any files scrambled with the ransomware would be completely lost because it did a very poor job of handling the decryption keys needed to restore data. "Even if it is far inferior to most current ransomware targeting Windows, it doesn't fail to encrypt victim's files or prevent access to important files, thereby causing real damage," wrote the researchers. The free Macspy spyware, offered via the same site, can log which keys are pressed, take screenshots and tap into a machine's microphone. In its analysis, AlienVault researcher Peter Ewane said the malicious code in the spyware tried hard to evade many of the standard ways security programs spot and stop such programs. Mr Ewane said Mac users needed to start being more vigilant as malware creators targeted them. "As OS X continues to grow in market share we can expect malware authors to invest greater amounts of time in producing malware for this platform." Statistics gathered by McAfee suggest that there are now about 450,000 malicious programs aimed at Macs - far fewer than the 23 million targeting Windows users. Technology explained: what is ransomware? Aamir Lakhani from Fortinet said Mac users should make sure their machines were kept up to date with the latest software patches and be wary of messages they receive via email. "Mac ransomware is definitely becoming bigger," he told EWeek . "Although market share is still small, hackers know that there is valuable data on the Mac." Apple declined to comment on the developments.Spyware tracks child sex abuse site users 1 December 2016 Hidden code that tracked visitors to a child sex abuse image website has been discovered by its members. The script in the site targeted visitors using the anonymising web browser Tor and sent information about their computers to a server in France. The code may have been written by a law enforcement agency and there are fears it could have been used on other sites to track law-abiding people. An update to the Tor browser has disabled the tracker. Tor is designed to let people access pages from the so-called dark web and browse free from surveillance. But the hidden code in the illicit website exploited a security flaw in Tor to send user information back to a mysterious server in France. Technology explained: What is the dark web? The vulnerability also affected the Mozilla's Firefox browser, on which Tor is based. Technology news site Motherboard found online posts referring to the discovery of the tracking code on the child sex abuse website. 'Government hacking' One user described the code as a network investigative technique (Nit), which can be used by law enforcement to help identify people browsing the web anonymously. The website in question was shut down on 15 November. The party behind the tracking code has not been identified, but one security researcher told news site Ars Technica that a majority of the code matched a script deployed by the FBI in 2013. Daniel Veditz, security lead at Firefox-maker Mozilla, said in a blog : "The exploit in this case works in essentially the same way as the 'network investigative technique' used by [the] FBI to deanonymise Tor users. "This similarity has led to speculation that this exploit was created by FBI or another law enforcement agency.  As of now, we do not know whether this is the case. "If this exploit was in fact developed and deployed by a government agency, the fact that it has been published and can now be used by anyone to attack Firefox users is a clear demonstration of how supposedly limited government hacking can become a threat to the broader web." The security flaw has now been patched in both Firefox and Tor.Malware found on laptops given out by government By Jane Wakefield 22 January Some of the laptops given out in England to support vulnerable children home-schooling during lockdown contain malware, BBC News has learned. Teachers shared details on an online forum about suspicious files found on devices sent to a Bradford school. The malware, which they said appeared to be contacting Russian servers, is believed to have been found on laptops given to a handful of schools. The Department for Education said it was aware and urgently investigating. A DfE official told BBC News: "We are aware of an issue with a small number of devices. And we are investigating as an urgent priority to resolve the matter as soon as possible. "DfE IT teams are in touch with those who have reported this issue." "We believe this is not widespread." Geo, the firm which made the laptops, told the BBC: "We have been working closely with the Department for Education regarding a reported issue on a very small number of devices. We are providing our full support during their investigation. "We take all matters of security extremely seriously. Any schools that have concerns should contact the Department for Education." According to the forum, the Windows laptops contained Gamarue.I, a worm identified by Microsoft in 2012. The government has so far sent schools more than 800,000 laptops, as it tries to distribute more than a million devices to disadvantaged pupils who may not have access at home. "Upon unboxing and preparing them, it was discovered that a number of the laptops were infected with a self-propagating network worm," wrote Marium Haque, deputy director of Education and Learning at Bradford Council. She recommended that schools also check their networks "as an added precaution". Information security consultant Paul Moore told the BBC that the Gamarue worm "presents a very severe threat to any PC or network". "Ideally users should reboot into safe mode and run a full scan with an anti-virus product," he said. "However with this type of malware, it is advisable to seek professional assistance in order to ensure it has been correctly removed." The malware in question installs spyware which can gather information about browsing habits, as well as harvest personal information such as banking details. "The fact that these devices were not checked and scrubbed before being sent to vulnerable children is a concern," said George Glass, head of threat intelligence at security firm Redscan.Apple tackles iPhone one-tap spyware flaws 26 August 2016 The texts had been sent to human rights activist Ahmed Mansoor Flaws in Apple's iOS operating system have been discovered that made it possible to install spyware on a target's device merely by getting them to click on a link. The discovery was made after a human rights lawyer alerted security researchers to unsolicited text messages he had received. They discovered three previously unknown flaws within Apple's code. Apple has since released a software update that addresses the problem. The two security firms involved, Citizen Lab and Lookout, said they had held back details of the discovery until the fix had been issued. Rare attack Human rights lawyer tells BBC's Today about the hack attempt The lawyer, Ahmed Mansoor, received the text messages on 10 and 11 August. The texts promised to reveal "secrets" about people allegedly being tortured in the United Arab Emirates (UAE)'s jails if he tapped the links. Had he done so, Citizen Lab says, his iPhone 6 would have been "jailbroken", meaning unauthorised software could have been installed. "Once infected, Mansoor's phone would have become a digital spy in his pocket, capable of employing his iPhone's camera and microphone to snoop on activity in the vicinity of the device, recording his WhatsApp and Viber calls, logging messages sent in mobile chat apps, and tracking his movements," said Citizen Lab. "We are not aware of any previous instance of an iPhone remote jailbreak used in the wild as part of a targeted attack campaign, making this a rare find." The researchers say they believe the spyware involved was created by NSO Group, an Israeli "cyber-war" company. The spyware would have been installed if Mansoor had tapped on the links "[It is] the most sophisticated spyware package we've seen," said Lookout. "It takes advantage of how integrated mobile devices are in our lives and the combination of features only available on mobile - always connected (wi-fi, 3G/4G), voice communications, camera, email, messaging, GPS, passwords, and contact lists." Analysis: Dave Lee, BBC North America technology reporter This is in many ways a textbook case of the cybersecurity community acting precisely as it should. Researchers were alerted to a vulnerability, investigated it, and made Apple, the company responsible for fixing it, aware so it could issue a fix. Apple, to its credit, understood the severity and acted quickly - it took them just 10 days. These types of vulnerabilities are rare and extremely lucrative. A genuine "zero day" - the name given to previously unknown security flaws - can be sold for upwards of $1m when it affects a major piece of software like Apple's iOS. In this case, it looks like several zero days were combined to make a hugely sophisticated attack package. Now attention is shifting to the secretive organisation said to be behind the attack, the NSO Group, described by researchers as a cyber arms dealer, and described by itself as firm capable of being a "ghost" on victims' devices - working undetected but gathering enormous amounts of private data. According to Privacy International, NSO Group has sold its products to clients in Mexico and in Panama - but little is known about other deals involving the company which is said to be worth more than $1bn. Pressure is also being put on Francisco Partners Ltd, the San Francisco-based venture capital firm that has a controlling stake in NSO Group. It is yet to comment on the controversial attack. NSO has issued a statement acknowledging that it makes technology used to "combat terror and crime" but said it had no knowledge of any particular incidents and made no reference to the specific spyware involved. "These are rather rare zero-day flaws," commented security expert Prof Alan Woodward, referring to the technical name for previously unknown vulnerabilities. "To have several found at once is even rarer. As can be seen from how these have been exploited to date, it represents a serious threat to the security and privacy of iOS users. "Apple has been remarkably responsive in providing fixes for these issues, so I would encourage any iOS users to update to the latest version of the operating system." For its part, Apple has limited itself to saying: "We were made aware of this vulnerability and immediately fixed it with iOS 9.3.5. We advise all of our customers to always download the latest version of iOS to protect themselves against potential security exploits."French firm offered spyware to 'find out if your son is gay' 23 August 2017 Many companies now offer products that track children's internet use A French company offering "invisible PC spy software" has been criticised after it said its product could be used "to find out if your son is gay". Listing a series of "clues", the company, Fireworld, suggested that "hacking his Facebook account" and seeing if he had visited gay websites could confirm a parent's suspicions. The company has since taken down the article. The post was highlighted by a French youth LGBT rights group. L'Amicale des jeunes du Refuge's thread about Fireworld's article (in French) was retweeted by French Secretary of State for Equality Marlène Schiappa, who wrote that it showed that "homophobia and sexism have their roots in the same gender stereotypes. We will fight them together". In its online article, since removed, the firm said that "family is fundamental. That's why the sexual orientation of your children, directly responsible for the continuation of your family, is very important to you". The article went on to list the clues that might cause a parent to suspect that their son might be gay. The article makes no mention of female homosexuality. They include "taking good care of himself", being more interested in reading and theatre than in football, being shy as a young boy, having certain piercings and liking female singers and divas. It then suggested a variety of ways to be sure, including "monitoring his Facebook use", seeing "if he has visited gay forums" and "spying on his private messages". The original post has been removed from Fireworld's website In a response to L'Amicale des jeunes du Refuge, Fireworld wrote that "the article had the sole aim of improving search engine optimisation and was never intended to be read by humans". "We regret not having reflected on the consequences of this type of content..." the firm emailed. "We sincerely apologise to all those who may have felt offended by this content," it added. However, the English language version of Fireworld's site suggests a range of scenarios in which a potential customer might want to monitor someone else's computer, including "control your teenage offspring's PC", checking "what your employees are doing" and "detecting infidelity in your marriage or relationship". It is not legal in France to install spyware on someone else's computer in order to monitor it, without their knowledge. Fireworld points out to customers that they must comply with the law when using their products. However, it says, "installing [its product] to make sure that your children are not endangering themselves on the Internet or on social networks, come[s] closer to being legal". French newspaper Liberation reports that spyware vendors are usually more subtle in their claims for their products, as French law does not allow advertising which incentivises the illegal use of such tools. There are a range of products on the market that offer parental monitoring and report back to parents on what their children have been doing online. Support for gay young people and their families:Lawyer describes iPhone one-tap spyware flaw discovery Flaws in Apple's iOS operating system have been discovered that made it possible to install spyware on a target's device merely by getting them to click on a link. "This is always a possibility with technology. The smarter you get, others as well find smarter techniques in intruding into your devices," says Ahmed Mansour, the human rights lawyer who discovered the flaw. 26 August 2016 BBC News TechnologySpyware maker faces legal battle over alleged affair By Rhiannon Williams 18 August 2016 An advert for WebWatcher features a protective mother installing the software on her daughter's phone A spyware company faces legal action after a US court ruled that its software was used unlawfully to intercept an unwitting man's messages. Javier Luis started an online friendship with Catherine Zang in 2009. Her husband used WebWatcher spyware to track the pair's private emails and online chats over several months, as evidence for divorce proceedings. The US appeal court has now ruled 2-1 that Mr Luis can sue the software firm Awareness Technologies. Mr Luis claims the software, which logged web history, searches, chat logs and email threads, illegally intercepted his communications with Ms Zang. Legal action by Mr Luis against Mr Zang and other unnamed parties has been settled. But Mr Luis pursued his case against Awareness after a district court initially dismissed his claims against the company. A caring relationship While the two never met in person, Mr Luis said he developed "a caring relationship" with Ms Zang. Mr Zang grew suspicious that his wife was conversing with other men, and installed the WebWatcher software on a shared computer to intercept her messages in real time. He read copies of the messages on the WebWatcher servers, and used the information to divorce Ms Zang on terms favourable to him in 2010. Information from WebWatcher's website on how to install the software WebWatcher is marketed as parental monitoring software for ensuring children are using technology appropriately. Its terms of use require that the software is only installed on devices belonging to the purchaser or with permission to monitor a phone or computer belonging to someone else. Awareness Technologies denied Mr Luis' assertions that it intercepted the communications - illegal under the US Wiretap Act - arguing it merely stored them as data. It claimed that the term intercept applied only to situations in which a device captures a communication "either before [it] reaches the intended recipient or contemporaneous with the transmission not after it reaches the destination where it is placed in electronic storage." The court of appeals disagreed. It concluded that Mr Luis "has indeed alleged enough facts to reasonably infer that Awareness intercepted his communications". Awareness has been contacted for comment. The case has now been sent back to the lower court for it to continue.The Dissident: Jamal Khashoggi documentary points finger at Saudi Arabia's crown prince By Emma Jones 27 February Jamal Khashoggi (right) was a prominent journalist and critic of Saudi Arabia's government The Oscar-winning director of a documentary investigating the murder of Jamal Khashoggi says he does not believe Saudi Arabia's crown prince will ever face formal investigation for his killing. A newly-released US CIA report has implicated Mohammed bin Salman in the death of the Saudi journalist, who was killed in the Saudi consulate in Istanbul in October 2018. Bryan Fogel's film The Dissident explores what happened to Khashoggi and who might have ordered his murder. His body has never been recovered and the Saudi crown prince has denied involvement. In November 2019, five men were tried and sentenced to death in a Saudi court for Khashoggi's killing and three others were jailed. The death sentences were later commuted to 20 years in prison. Using transcripts obtained from the Turkish government, Fogel's film suggests that Khashoggi, a journalist for the Washington Post who had exiled himself to the US, was suffocated and then dismembered inside the consulate. The film also investigates the use of spyware and phone hacking against Saudi activists living in exile. These include Canada-based video blogger Omar Abdulaziz, with whom Khashoggi was in close contact before his death. "I don't believe the crown prince is ever going to face an Interpol arrest warrant that'll pick him up when he lands his private jet somewhere and haul him off to The Hague or extradite him to Istanbul or the US," says Fogel. "That's never going to happen. "This is the environment that we find ourselves in, which is constantly in conflict with human rights. Leaders like Mohammed bin Salman see their money can buy their way out of these sorts of events, and there isn't accountability unless there's a cumulative and combined effort from countries." Mohammed bin Salman was made crown prince by his father King Salman in 2017 Fogel says he welcomes a re-evaluation of ties between the US and Saudi Arabia under the Biden administration, citing the close relationship the two countries had during Donald Trump's presidency. "Biden's definitely not following the playbook of Donald Trump," the US director comments. "Signing off [on] the declassification and releasing the CIA findings into Khashoggi's murder is a blow to US-Saudi relations." According to Fogel, the recent release of human rights activist Loujain al-Hathloul after almost three years in detention is "clearly a peace offering to the Biden administration". "There appears to be support from both Democrats and Republicans to re-examine the relationship with Saudi Arabia in the light of the war in Yemen, so time will tell," he continues. Fogel's last investigative film, Icarus, won an Oscar in 2018 for exposing the scandal of state-sponsored Russian doping in athletics. The Dissident was also critically acclaimed following its world premiere at the Sundance Film Festival in 2020, yet Fogel queries why global streaming services including Amazon and Netflix have not bought the film for their platforms. "I think the film lays bare that unfortunately there is a contrition and a cowardice amongst these huge companies to take on subject matter that might affect their shareholder value, or their business or investor interests, even though they know hundreds of millions of people would be interested in watching the film," he argues. Video blogger Omar Abdulaziz gives revealing testimony in Fogel's film Fogel is also critical of Amazon owner Jeff Bezos, the world's richest person, who also owns the Washington Post, the newspaper that employed Khashoggi. "He chose not to acquire this film for global distribution on his platform," Fogel says. "But a few months later, he acquired Souq, the so-called Amazon of Saudi Arabia." Amazon actually acquired Souq.com in 2017 , subsequently rebranding it as Amazon.ae. "Is Amazon still doing business with Saudi Arabia? Yes," says Fogel. "Is he actually standing up for the murder of his employee? He's certainly made some statements, but actions speak louder than words." Fogel's film includes footage of a 2017 vigil held near the Saudi consulate in Istanbul which Bezos attended and spoke at. Hatice Cengiz (right) has accused Saudi Arabia's crown prince of ordering her fiancée's killing "I'm not mad at any of these companies," the director goes on. "It's business. But it's disappointing as this sort of behaviour eventually allows murders like Jamal Khashoggi's to happen, and when there's no standing up for content like this it becomes increasingly difficult for filmmakers like myself. But I'm optimistic that the climate will change." The aim of The Dissident, its director says, is not to make "an archival film". "It's to make a living, breathing thriller that looks deeply into Khashoggi's murder and the ramifications of it," he contends. Fogel also interviews Khashoggi's fiancée, Turkish scientist Hatice Cengiz, as well as Omar Abdulaziz, whose activism was financially supported by Khashoggi. The film puts forward the theory that this act may have tipped Jamal Khashoggi into being viewed as an activist and dissident himself, rather than just an outspoken journalist. "But I think even in the final weeks of Jamal's life he never saw himself as a dissident," Fogel argues. "He was holding onto the notion that he was a journalist. Yet what you see in the film is that the work he was doing and what he was writing about made him one, at least as we understand it. "Jamal Khashoggi was someone who wanted to make his country a better place and was silenced in the most horrific way," Fogel concludes. "In the film, you'll see that the choice he faced was either to stay in Saudi Arabia and be silent, or leave Saudi, risk his life and go into exile and speak truth to power. It cost him his life." The Dissident will have its UK premiere online at the Glasgow Film Festival on 6 March. Follow us on Facebook , or on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts . If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk .The spyware spooks use to hack mobiles Surveillance software which can snoop on mobiles, tablets and PCs was stolen from the vendors, Hacking Team, last month. The attackers published the software on several internet sites making it openly available to download. UK Security firm, 4Armed , gave BBC Click's Dan Simmons a live demonstration of the mobile phone spyware that has been sold to more than 30 governments and intelligence agencies globally. 4Armed said that using it to spy on someone without their consent would be against the law. This is additional online-only content from Click More at BBC.com/Click and @BBCClick . 5 August 2015 BBC News TechnologyTop Catalan politician accuses Spain of 'political spying' 14 July 2020 Roger Torrent has called for an investigation into the alleged spying A leading Catalan pro-independence politician has accused the Spanish government of spying on his mobile phone. Roger Torrent, speaker of the Catalan parliament, spoke out after details of the alleged espionage were revealed in a joint investigation by the Guardian and El Pais newspapers. Mr Torrent said it was proof of "political spying against political opponents" in Spain. Madrid has denied the allegations. The Guardian and El Pais newspapers reported that Mr Torrent had been warned that his phone was targeted last year using Pegasus, an Israeli-made spyware tool. The makers of the tool say it is only sold to governments to track criminals and terrorists. Mr Torrent was warned about the spyware by researchers working with WhatsApp. Speaking on Tuesday, Mr Torrent called for a full investigation into what happened. "This is the first time that we have concrete confirmation of what many of us knew and had been denouncing... We knew that illegal practices were being directed against the independence cause. Now we have certain proof," he said. The office of Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez denied the accusations. A spokeswoman told AFP news agency the government was not aware that Mr Torrent and another former Catalan lawmaker "had been subjected to a hacking attack via their mobile phones". "In Spain, any intervention concerning a mobile phone is always done legally," she said. Catalonia's drive for independence has plunged Spain into its biggest political crisis in 40 years. The region had its autonomy suspended for almost seven months by Madrid after a failed bid to break away in 2017. In October last year, Spain's Supreme Court sentenced nine Catalan politicians and activists to jail terms of between nine and 13 years for that independence bid.Brazen fraudsters offer crime subscription service By Kevin Peachey 23 December 2020 Criminal organisations are offering subscription services to other fraudsters to teach them a scam in which they impersonate their victims. Fraud prevention organisation Cifas said fraudsters were sharing tips and getting more sophisticated in their attempts to steal money. Cases of a particular scam targeting shoppers, which often spikes at Christmas, have tripled this year. Criminals harvest personal information then buy items in someone else's name. Dark tips The so-called facility takeover fraud sees victims reveal personal or financial information to someone they believe is genuine, such as supposed bank staff. Criminals then use this information to access bank or credit card accounts to order items in the victim's name. Online banking accounts can also be taken over as a result of phishing, spyware or malware scams on computers. Cifas - a not-for-profit organisation that shares fraud prevention tips between businesses and public bodies - said its intelligence team had seen evidence of criminals charging each other for information on the dark web. This is the part of the internet that is invisible to search engines. Criminals have long shared so-called sucker lists, detailing people who they have previously tricked in a scam and could be potential victims again. Details can be stolen in a variety of ways There were 7,461 reports in the retail sector from January to September recorded by Cifas, compared with 2,365 in the same period in 2019. There was also a big rise in cases of fraudsters using the same kind of scam to order mobile phones. Cifas said techniques used by criminals were becoming more sophisticated as they were finding new ways to circumvent security measures put in place by companies. Mike Haley, chief executive of Cifas, said: "We often notice a spike in this activity over the festive period, and so I would urge everyone to remain vigilant if contacted by anyone claiming to be from an organisation they trust, such as a bank, mobile phone company or even the police." Last month, banking trade body UK Finance warned criminals were using the cover of Christmas shopping deals to roll out data harvesting scams, attempting to prompt consumers to provide details through phishing emails. These messages often advertised cheap goods and could involve fraudsters impersonating genuine organisations and businesses. How to prevent fraud The Take Five to Stop Fraud campaign is urging people to:Spyware use in domestic violence 'escalating' By Zoe Kleinman 22 December 2014 Parents are advised to be wary of gadgets given to children by abusive partners because of spyware Stalkers and abusers are increasingly using cheap spyware to monitor and harass their victims, claims a charity. Tracking and listening devices, often disguised as everyday objects, retail online for under £50 and are easy to install, says the Digital-Trust . There are no official figures but "digital abuse" is often experienced by victims of domestic violence, it adds. People with abusive partners should also be wary of gadgets given to their children, the charity warns. "Eighteen months ago I issued advice to domestic violence groups about fathers gifting smartphones or even allowing them to take them on access visits because it is so easy for abusers to use them as surveillance," said Jennifer Perry, chief executive of the newly formed Digital-Trust. "I recommend children are given inexpensive pay as you go phones when visiting an abusive parent." Ms Perry said incidents of digital abuse - ranging from surveillance to accessing voicemails, emails and cloud accounts, is escalating in the UK. In addition cheap surveillance devices - small GPS trackers, listening devices and cameras hidden inside books, lamps, plug sockets and carbon monoxide detectors, are freely available online despite some of them being illegal. "If I have a domestic violence victim I assume there will be some type of digital abuse - it's not the exception, it's the assumption," she told the BBC. Digital abuse is now very common for victims of domestic violence warns Digital-Trust chief executive Jennifer Perry Ms Perry added that in her experience it is more likely to happen to female victims. "I get a lot of criticism for saying it but I don't see this level or type of surveillance used against male victims," she added. "I see men using it against women. It is rare to see a man targeted surveillance-wise by women." Ms Perry began working in the field of e-crime in 2005. She said that often victims need very specific advice, which is not easily available. "Safety advice is often done by topic but if you don't know what you're looking for it doesn't help," she added. "We'll ask a series of questions that deal with the symptoms - are you being harassed by your partner? Is he showing up where you are? Has he had access to your house or your PC?" Smartphone owners may have not set up their device themselves so may not know what has been installed on it, she added. "The main thing I try to do is stop any form of data leaking. That's my number one objective," Ms Perry said. "If you have a stalker and they get access to some information about you it's like the rush they get from a gambling addiction. "You're taking about jealous or obsessive personalities. One stalker Googled a colleague of mine 40,000 times in a year. Another looked at someone's Facebook page 2,500 times in one month."Security firms uncover 'sophisticated' Regin spyware 24 November 2014 The sophisticated Regin malware had been used to spy on airlines, said Symantec An "extremely complex" and "stealthy" spying program has been stealing data from ISPs, energy companies, airlines and research-and-development labs, a security company has said. With a "degree of technical competence rarely seen", Regin had probably taken years to develop, Symantec said . And a nation state may have written it to serve its spying agencies' needs. The program had been used in "systematic spying campaigns" over the past six years, Symantec said. Aimed at Windows users, Regin slowly infiltrated its targets, taking care at each stage to hide its tracks, the company said. "Many components of Regin remain undiscovered and additional functionality and versions may exist," it added. "Its design makes it highly suited for persistent, long-term surveillance operations against targets." Jason Steer, director of technology strategy at security firm FireEye, said: "These types of toolkits have existed for a few years now." He added: "It's a challenge to the whole security industry as to how they find these malicious and sophisticated pieces of code," Security firms were better at spotting such things even though Regin and its ilk were built to fool modern-day tools that look for malicious programs and monitor activity to spot anything suspicious. The techniques Regin used to sneak on to a network and communicate with its creators were very complicated, he said. Vikram Thakur, Symantec: "We don't believe it is being used... for mass surveillance" "It's clearly been written by someone that has much more than making money in mind," he said. Mr Steer said the tip-offs about Regin and similarly sophisticated threats often came from government agencies who kept an eye on the cyber spying capabilities of both friendly and hostile nations. Recovering files Victims had been infected via spoofed versions of well-known websites and by exploiting known vulnerabilities in web browser software, said Symantec in a detailed analysis. In a blogpost , security company F-Secure said it had first encountered Regin in 2009 after investigating what was making a server on the network of one of its customers crash repeatedly. Closer investigation revealed the culprit to be Regin which was attempting to insert itself into the heart of the software controlling the server. Chief research officer Mikko Hypponen said: "Finding malware of this calibre is very rare. "We're still missing big parts of the puzzle." "Nevertheless, it's obvious this is a very complicated malware written by a well-equipped nation-state." He added that the malware did not look like it originated in China or Russia - the places suspected of creating many other stealthy, spying programs. Security firm Kaspersky Lab said it too had spotted Regin being used to infiltrate networks and steal data. In one attack, Regin was used to gather administrative details for a mobile phone network in the Middle East that, if used, would have given attackers control over the system. Symantec said it had captured the first copies of Regin in a small number of organisations between 2008 and 2011. Soon after, the malware had appeared to have been withdrawn, but a new version found in 2013 was now being actively used. Only about 100 Regin infections have so far been identified. It is believed to provide the ability to: Symantec said that Regin had a lot in common with other malicious programs such as Flame, Duqu and Stuxnet, also thought to be written by nation states to aid their spying efforts.Spyware demo shows how spooks hack mobile phones By Chris Baraniuk 5 August 2015 Security experts give a live demonstration of mobile phone spyware Intelligence agencies' secretive techniques for spying on mobile phones are seldom made public. But a UK security firm has shown the BBC how one tool, sold around the world to spooks, actually works. It allows spies to take secret pictures with a phone's camera and record conversations with the microphone, without the phone owner knowing. Hacking Team's software was recently stolen from the company by hackers and published on the web. Almost any data on a phone, tablet or PC can be accessed by the tool and it is fascinating how much it can do. When Joe Greenwood, of cybersecurity firm 4Armed, saw that source code for the program had been dumped online by hackers, he couldn't resist experimenting with it. Although he had to fiddle with the code to make it work, it only took a day before he had it up and running. The software consists of the surveillance console, which displays data retrieved from a hacked device, and malware planted on the target device itself. 4Armed was careful to note that using it to spy on someone without their consent would be against the law. Listening in After testing the software on his own PC, Mr Greenwood soon realised the scope of its capabilities. "You can download files, record microphones, webcam images, websites visited, see what programs are running, intercept Skype calls," he told the BBC. The software even has some in-built features to track Bitcoin payments, which can be difficult to associate with individuals without additional data about when and how transactions were performed. In a live demonstration of the system, Mr Greenwood showed how an infected phone could be made to record audio from the microphone, even when the device was locked, and use the phone's camera without its owner knowing. "We can actually take photos without them realising. "So the camera in the background is running, taking photos every number of seconds," explained Mr Greenwood. It was also possible to listen in on phone calls, access the list of contacts stored on the device and track what websites the phone user was visiting. The tool can record audio from a phone's microphone, even when the device is locked Both Mr Greenwood and 4Armed's technical director, Marc Wickenden, said they were surprised by the sleekness of the interface. Both point out, though, that customers could be paying upwards of £1m for the software and would expect it to be user-friendly, especially if it was intended for use by law enforcers on the beat. For the tracked user, though, there are very few ways of finding out that they are being watched. One red flag, according to Mr Greenwood, is a sudden spike in network data usage, indicating that information is being sent somewhere in the background. Experienced spies, however, would be careful to minimise this in order to remain incognito. At present, spy software like this is only likely to be secretly deployed on the phones and computers of people who are key targets for an intelligence agency. Spy catcher The version of the spyware distributed online is now likely to be more easily detected by anti-virus programs because companies analysing the source code are in the process of updating their systems to recognise it. Security expert Graham Cluley said it should be as easy to detect as malware. "The danger will be that malicious hackers could take that code and augment it or change it so it no longer looks like Hacking Team's versions, which might avoid detection," he added. The best course of action, said Mr Cluley, is to keep operating systems and software as up to date as possible. In a statement, a spokesman for Hacking Team said it advised its customers not to use the software once the breach was discovered. "As soon as the event was discovered, Hacking Team immediately advised all clients to discontinue the use of that version of the software, and the company provided a patch to assure that client surveillance data and other information stored on client systems was secure. "From the beginning Hacking Team has assumed that the code that has been released is compromised," he said. The spokesman added that the software would be operated by clients of Hacking Team, not Hacking Team itself, and therefore no sensitive data relating to ongoing investigations had been compromised in the breach. "Of course, there are many who would use for their own purposes the information released by the criminals who attacked Hacking Team. "This was apparently not a concern of the attackers who recklessly published the material for all online. "Compiling the software would take considerable technical skill, so not just anyone could do that, but that is not to say it is impossible," he said.Regin, new computer spyware, discovered by Symantec Rory Cellan-Jones @BBCRoryCJ 23 November 2014 Vikram Thakur, Symantec: "We don't believe it is being used... for mass surveillance" A leading computer security company says it has discovered one of the most sophisticated pieces of malicious software ever seen. Symantec says the bug, named Regin, was probably created by a government and has been used for six years against a range of targets around the world. Once installed on a computer, it can do things like capture screenshots, steal passwords or recover deleted files. Experts say computers in Russia, Saudi Arabia and Ireland have been hit most. It has been used to spy on government organisations, businesses and private individuals, they say. Researchers say the sophistication of the software indicates that it is a cyber-espionage tool developed by a nation state. They also said it likely took months, if not years, to develop and its creators have gone to great lengths to cover its tracks. Sian John, a security strategist at Symantec, said: "It looks like it comes from a Western organisation. It's the level of skill and expertise, the length of time over which it was developed." Symantec has drawn parallels with Stuxnet, a computer worm thought to have been developed by the US and Israel to target Iran's nuclear program. That was designed to damage equipment, whereas Regin's purpose appears to be to collect information.eBay pulls sales of Chinese 'spyware phones' By Leo Kelion 18 June 2014 The Star N9500 handset was being sold for about £120 on eBay EBay is barring listings for a smartphone after reports the model is pre-installed with spyware in its Chinese factory. A German security firm reported on Tuesday that the Android-powered Star N9500 sent personal data to a computer server in China, adding that the Trojan could not be removed. It said the malware was disguised as the legitimate Google Play Store app. The handset remains on sale on Amazon, which could not be reached for comment. But eBay said it was rolling out the ban globally. "Due to reports that some Star 9500 smartphones are loaded with spyware, eBay is not allowing the sale of these devices as a precautionary measure," a spokesman told the BBC. Intercepted calls Amazon is still listing the model from third-party sellers Although the brand Star is far from being a household name, the handset may have appealed to some customers because of its close resemblance to the Samsung Galaxy S4 coupled with the fact it sells for about a third of the cost. Security firm G Data said it was alerted to the case after receiving tip-offs from its customers. "The spyware runs in the background and cannot be detected by users," it said. "Unbeknownst to the user, the smartphone sends personal data to a server located in China and is able to covertly install additional applications. "This makes it possible to retrieve personal data, intercept calls and online banking data, read emails and text messages or control the camera and microphone remotely. "The program also blocks the installation of security updates." The Associated Press news agency has reported that although several Shenzhen-based firms used eBay and other sites to sell the model, it had been unable to track down the manufacturer. G Data identified the malware involved as being Android.Trojan.Uupay.D If the allegations are true, it is not known whether the manufacturer itself would have been aware of what was being done at its plant. This is not the first time that a Chinese factory has been accused of shipping devices preinstalled with malware. In 2012 Microsoft reported that several PC makers in the country had been found to load malicious programs onto their computers. Then, last year German firm E-Plus reported that some of its China-made Android smartphones were being shipped with SD memory cards infected with a computer worm.Post Prism: The new meaning of spyware By Jane Wakefield 22 November 2013 It may not just be the cybercriminals accessing your computer If you thought you were pretty clever knowing that spyware refers to pieces of malicious code put on computers in order for cybercriminals to steal your passwords and other IDs, think again. These days it has a much more literal sense, at least if the latest documents leaked by former US National Security Agency (NSA) contractor Edward Snowden to the Der Spiegel newspaper are to be believed. The documents allege that spies are regularly using tools more usually associated with cybercriminals. It is alleged UK spy agency GCHQ operatives created fake web pages that injected malware into the computers of engineers running one of Belgium's largest telecommunications companies in order to be able to access its systems. "We have to realise that a number of GCHQ staff are indeed hackers,  but licensed by the state and protected by the Intelligence Services Act 1994 and ministerial warrant," said digital forensic expert Prof Peter Sommer. "They will deploy every type of hacker trick to achieve their aims." It is a view endorsed by Dwayne Melancon, chief technology officer of security firm Tripwire and a man used to looking at malicious code as part of his daily job. "It seems you can't throw a rock these days without hitting a nation state surveillance operation," he said. It raised some pretty fundamental questions about whom we trust online, said Prof Alan Woodward, security expert and lecturer at Surrey University, who has undertaken consultancy work for GCHQ. "When the criminals start to look like law enforcement, that is a very dangerous practice," he said. "Where do you draw the line? Is it with engineers who control machines or should they be allowed to have malware on everyone's PC 'just in case' they want to use it as a route to some high value target?" Bespoke malware The police are also using the tools of the cybercriminals There is now a growing body of evidence to suggest that the use of malware is standard practice for the police as well as the intelligence services. In the summer it was revealed that the FBI used mobile malware to infect and control a suspect's handset. And in September the FBI admitted that it had planted hidden code on the dark net, a part of the internet favoured by cybercriminals because it is unreachable by standard search engines. Security researchers who dissected the code found it exploited a security hole in Firefox, which reported back to a mysterious server in northern Virginia. Meanwhile leaked German police documents suggest that the Federal Criminal Police Office is working on its own surveillance software, which it hopes to have ready by the end of 2014. Accidental infection Prof Sommer said: "I'd hope that the intelligence service uses highly targeted malware. "So if they target someone specifically, they send an email with a booby trap - but they will only be sending it to the target and the malware wouldn't have any self-replicating properties." But Mr Melancon is not so sure, particularly if the authorities are using so-called "watering hole" websites, which are popular with specific groups of users. In the Belgian case, GCHQ is alleged to have targeted LinkedIn and tech news site Slashdot in order to lure the engineers it was targeting. "Such sites are notoriously indiscriminate," said Mr Melancon. " You can limit the risk of accidental infection of uninvolved persons, but you can't eliminate that risk entirely. "Collateral damage and inadvertent surveillance of non-targeted individuals is almost certain." Legal framework The other big question raised by the allegations published by Der Spiegel is just whom the spooks are after. If you hear the word "target" from an intelligence agency, you probably assume they are referring to a terrorist or some other individual intent on harm. What the Belgian case reveals is that engineers can also be targets. So is it ethical to put malware on the computer of an innocent employee who just happens to have access to a computer system you may want to look at? "If the result is damaging or destroying data or property, then it could certainly be deemed unethical by a reasonable person. "Likewise, violating the civil liberties of an individual crosses the ethical line. You can rationalise damage to engineers by lumping them into a collective as part of 'their organisation', but this is very subjective," said Mr Melancon. For its part, GCHQ offered a pretty standard response to the particular allegations about breaking into Belgian servers. "All GCHQ's work is carried out in accordance with a strict legal and policy framework, which ensure that our activities are authorised, necessary and proportionate, and that there is rigorous oversight, including from the secretary of state, the Interception and intelligence services commissioners and the Intelligence and Security Committee," it said. The only way to be sure you too do not become a "target" is to "consider all networks untrustworthy", according to Robert Hansen, technical evangelist at WhiteHat Security. "Unfortunately, there isn't much hope for the individual because most of the things that would otherwise secure the user have historically been controlled by groups that have close ties to the government," he said. He is talking about the companies that register websites and encryption certificates. Johnny English? Sir Tim Berners Lee, inventor of the world wide web, has described attempts by spy agencies to crack encryption as "appalling and foolish". But through it all the general public seems to have been remarkably sanguine. Prof Sommer said: "In Germany and the US people are outraged but in the UK that is less the case. "People are rather proud of what GCHQ did during the war and they think it probably is not going to affect me." What the Snowden leaks have dispelled once and for all is any lurking suspicion that the security forces are some bumbling Johnny English sort of outfit. "The fact is that intelligence agencies are using advanced techniques actually more advanced than those used by criminals," said Amichai Shulman, chief technology officer of security firm Imperva. "We have enough proof now that governments do have the necessary technology and personnel that can effectively fight cybercrime. They just chose to put it to a different use."Germany spyware: Minister calls for probe of state use 11 October 2011 Germany has strict laws about spying on citizens Germany's justice minister has called for a national and state level probe into the use of controversial computer software to spy on people. The German state of Bavaria has admitted using the spyware, but claimed it had acted within the law. Three other states have also confirmed they have used spyware in order to investigate serious criminal offences, a German newspaper reports. Use of the software was exposed by a German hacker group. The Berlin-based Chaos Computer Club (CCC) said it had analysed a "lawful interception" malware programme called Federal Trojan, used by the German police force. They found that, once installed, the programme allows its operators to monitor exactly what the user is looking at - from which websites they have visited, to the emails they send and receive and the calls made through Skype. "The malware cannot only siphon away intimate data but also offers a remote control or backdoor functionality for uploading and executing arbitrary other programs," the group wrote on its website. The program, it said, had "significant design and implementation flaws", which made "all of the functionality available to anyone on the internet". Strong feelings The CCC had analysed a laptop allegedly belonging to a man accused of illegally exporting pharmaceuticals. His lawyer claims the Trojan program was installed on his client's computer when it passed through airport customs. Bavaria Interior Minister Joachim Herrman has confirmed that state officials have been using the software since 2009 - though he made no mention of any specific incidents - and insisted that they had acted within the law. However, he promised a review of the software's use. The German broadcaster Deutsche Welle reported on Tuesday that three other states - Baden-Wurttemberg, Brandenburg and Lower Saxony had confirmed using spyware, although it is not clear if all four states had used the same software. Justice Minister Sabine Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger has called on the federal and state governments to launch an investigation into the matter. "Trying to play down or trivialise the matter won't do," she said. "The citizen, in both the public and private spheres, must be protected from snooping through strict state control mechanisms." The BBC's Stephen Evans says the incident has sparked a row because Germans, given the country's Nazi and Communist past, feel strongly about spying on citizens. Germany's constitution stipulates strict protection against it, he adds.Pegasus breach: Will quitting WhatsApp make your phone safer? 4 November 2019 WhatsApp is one of the biggest instant messaging apps in the world With WhatsApp confirming that its software was used to install spyware on phones, many are considering deleting the popular messaging app. However, experts say this is not the answer. There has been considerable outrage and worry in many countries including India, after WhatsApp confirmed that some of its users were targeted with spyware. Some in the country have pointed fingers at the government, accusing them of being behind the hack, given that the group accused of creating the software, NSO Group, reportedly sells only to governments. WhatsApp has sued the company over the allegations, which it has strongly rejected. The Indian government has also denied involvement. Some users have been looking at options other than WhatsApp, including messaging apps like Signal or Telegram, believing that they are more secure. But experts say that WhatsApp, an app used by approximately 1.5 billion people in 180 countries and 400 million in India, is bearing the brunt of a hack that is not completely its fault. While a vulnerability in the app's video-calling feature allowed the spyware to go through without user intervention, it ultimately took over the phone because of gaps in the phone's operating systems. "The vulnerabilities the spyware exploited were at the level of the operating system, be it Android or Apple," Vinay Kesari, a technology lawyer specialising in privacy, said. "If there's spyware in your handset, everything that is readable or even whatever that comes through your camera or mic is at risk," technology writer Prasanto K Roy said. WhatsApp is a popular messaging app in India WhatsApp promotes itself as a "secure" communications app because messages are encrypted end-to-end. This means they should only be displayed in a legible form on the sender or recipient's device. "In this case, it doesn't matter if the app is end-to-end encrypted or not - once spyware is on your handset, hackers are able to see whatever is on your phone as you see it - this is already decrypted and in a readable form at this stage," Mr Kesari said. "You may as well have unlocked your phone and handed it over," he added. "But importantly, this breach shows just how vulnerable operating systems are." Much of the chatter has focused on switching to other messaging apps, particularly Signal, which is known for its open source code - but does that mean your phone would be better protected against spyware? Not necessarily, they say. "With Signal, there is an added layer of transparency because they release their code to the public - so if you are a sophisticated coder, and the company says they have fixed a bug, you can access the code and see for yourself," Mr Kesari said. "But that doesn't mean the app has an added layer of protection against such attacks." Mr Roy told the BBC that the attack went beyond the app. India is one of the fastest-growing internet markets in the world "For those whose handsets were compromised, all their information was at risk - not just WhatsApp," Mr Roy said. As of now, there is no reason to believe that WhatsApp is "any less safe" than other apps, he added.'I was a victim of the WhatsApp hack' By Joe Tidy 31 October 2019 In April, Faustin Rukundo received a mysterious call over WhatsApp from a number he did not recognise. He answered, but the line was silent and then it went dead. He tried calling back but nobody answered. He didn't know it but his phone had been compromised. As a Rwandan exile living in Leeds, Mr Rukundo was already privacy conscious. He searched for the number online and found the dialling code was from Sweden. Strange, he thought. But he soon forgot about it. Then the number called once more. Again nobody picked up. There were also missed calls from other numbers he did not recognise and he began to get worried about his family's safety, so he bought a new phone. Within a day, the unknown number called again. "I tried to answer and they hung up before I heard any voice," Mr Rukundo told the BBC. "Whenever I called back, no-one answered. I realised something was wrong when I started seeing files missing from the phone. "I spoke to my colleagues at the Rwanda National Congress and they too had similar experiences. They were getting missed calls from the same numbers as me." The Rwanda National Congress is a group that opposes the Rwandan regime. It was not until May, when Mr Rukundo read reports that WhatsApp had been hacked, that he realised what had happened. "I first read the story about the WhatsApp hack on the BBC and thought, 'Wow, this could explain what's happened to me,'" he said. "I changed my phone and realised my mistake. They were following my number around and putting the spy software on each new device by calling the same number." Victims did not need to answer the call For months, Mr Rukundo was convinced that he and his colleagues were some of the estimated 1,400 people targeted by attackers exploiting the flaw in WhatsApp. But it was only confirmed to him this week following a call from Citizen Lab at the University of Toronto. For six months, the organisation has been working with Facebook to investigate the hack and find out who was affected. Researchers there say: "As part of our investigation into the incident, Citizen Lab has identified over 100 cases of abusive targeting of human rights defenders and journalists in at least 20 countries across the globe." Mr Rukundo's profile as an outspoken critic of the Rwandan regime is consistent with the sort of people who were targets for this spyware. It was allegedly built and sold by the Israel-based NSO Group and sold to governments around the world. Hackers used the software to spy on journalists, human rights activists, political dissidents and diplomats. Mr Rukundo says he has not had any calls since the original hack, but the experience has made him and his family feel paranoid and scared. "Honestly, even before they confirmed this, we were gutted and terrified. It looks like they only bugged my phone for around two weeks but they had access to everything," he told the BBC. "Not only my activity during that time but my whole email history and all my contacts and connections. Everything is watched, the computers, our phones, nothing is safe. Even when we talk, they could be listening. I still don't feel safe." Mr Rukundo fled Rwanda in 2005 when critics of the government were being arrested and jailed. He says he fought to have his wife released after she was kidnapped and detained for two months on a family visit in 2007. Facebook, the owner of WhatsApp, is attempting to sue the NSO Group. The NSO Group denies any wrongdoing. In court documents, Facebook accuses the company of exploiting a then-unknown vulnerability in WhatsApp. The app is used by approximately 1.5 billion people in 180 countries. The service is popular for its end-to-end encryption, which means messages are scrambled as they travel across the internet, making them unreadable if intercepted. The filing at the US District Court of Northern California describes how the spyware was allegedly installed. The powerful software known as Pegasus is an NSO Group product that can remotely and covertly extract valuable intelligence from mobile devices, by sharing all phone activity including communications and location data with the attacker. In previous spyware attacks, victims have been tricked into downloading the software by clicking on booby-trapped web links. But with the WhatsApp hack, Facebook alleges that it was installed on victims' phones without them taking any action at all. The company says that between January 2018 and May 2019, NSO Group created WhatsApp accounts using telephone numbers registered in different counties, including Cyprus, Israel, Brazil, Indonesia, Sweden and the Netherlands. Then in April and May, the victims were attacked with a phone call over WhatsApp, it is claimed. The filing says: "To avoid the technical restrictions built into WhatsApp Signaling Servers, defendants formatted call initiation messages containing malicious code to appear like a legitimate call and concealed the code within call settings. "Disguising the malicious code as call settings enabled defendants to deliver it to the target device and made the malicious code appear as if it originated from WhatsApp Signaling Servers." The victims would be completely unaware that they had been bugged. In some cases the only thing they noticed were mysterious missed calls in WhatsApp logs. The document states that Facebook: NSO Group has been accused of supplying the spyware that let the killers of journalist Jamal Khashoggi track him down. NSO Group denies involvement in that incident and says it will fight these latest allegations. "In the strongest possible terms, we dispute today's allegations and will vigorously fight them," the company said in a statement to the BBC. "The sole purpose of NSO Group is to provide technology to licensed government intelligence and law enforcement agencies to help them fight terrorism and serious crime."