Pearson Park: Arrests after man 'assaulted with weapons' 9 March Police said officers would remain in the area to offer reassurance to the public Residents were evacuated from their homes as police attempted to arrest two men suspected of being involved in an armed assault. People living near Pearson Park in Hull were temporarily asked to leave on Monday night "for their safety", said Humberside Police. The force was responding to reports of two men attacking a third with "weapons" on nearby Newland Avenue. Police later detained two men at a property close to the park. The pair were arrested on suspicion of wounding with intent to cause grievous bodily harm after a man suffered head injuries. They remain in police custody. Two other men were also arrested in connection with the incident, which police said happened at 17:00 GMT. A spokesperson for the force said: "This is believed to be a targeted assault, with no wider threat to the public." The assault is believed to have been a targeted attack, police said Follow BBC Yorkshire on Facebook , Twitter and Instagram . Send your story ideas to yorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk or send video here .Red Lodge shooting: Three people hurt in 'targeted attack' 5 April Police said it was a "targeted attack" in the village near Mildenhall Three people have been injured following a shooting described by police as a "targeted attack". Suffolk Police said there were reports of shots fired in Elms Road, Red Lodge at about 14:55 BST on Sunday. Two teenage males and a woman suffered "minor injuries caused by shotgun pellets" and have since been discharged from hospital, the force said. Four men have been arrested on suspicion of wounding with intent to cause grievous bodily harm. The men, aged 24, 25, 29 and 35, were taken into police custody for questioning. Det Ch Insp Mike Brown said: "We are confident this was a targeted attack and there is no threat to the wider public." He said there would be more "officers on patrol to provide reassurance in the area" and appealed for those with information to come forward. Find BBC News: East of England on Facebook , Instagram and Twitter . If you have a story suggestion please email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.ukDUP's Gregory Campbell targeted in death threat 24 November 2014 Gregory Campbell also made reference to the 'curry my yoghurt' row at his party's conference DUP MP Gregory Campbell has been told by police of a serious death threat, his party press office has said. Party leader Peter Robinson said it was "an attack on democracy itself". Mr Campbell said: "This is not the first time that my life has been put under threat by republicans, and the challenge now is whether those who supported the threats in the past will condemn those who do it now. "If they do, it is an indication that we have indeed moved on." He added: "I will not be dictated to or deflected by terrorists." At the weekend, Mc Campbell told delegates his party would treat Sinn Fein's "entire wish list" as no more than toilet paper . He also said: "We will never agree to your Irish language act." Speaking earlier, Mr Robinson claimed Mr Campbell's words were "a bit of comedy" in the middle of the conference. On Monday, Sinn Féin minister John O'Dowd said his speech threatened the integrity of recent talks and called on Mr Robinson to be clear about the DUP position. As news of the death threat broke, Mr O'Dowd expressed sympathy for Mr Campbell. "My thoughts are with him and his family," he said. "I know the effect on himself and his family." In a statement, a police spokesperson said: "We do not comment on specific threats, however if we receive information that an individual may need to review their security, we will take steps to inform them immediately."DUP councillor George Duddy's home targeted in second graffiti threat 20 September 2013 DUP councillor and senior Orangeman George Duddy has been the target of a second graffiti threat Threatening graffiti has been sprayed on the home of DUP councillor and leading Orangeman George Duddy for the second time in two months. The threat was sprayed on the wall outside his house on Drumaquill Road, Coleraine, County Londonderry. Police have said it happened between 22:20 BST and 22:40 BST on Thursday and they are treating it as a hate crime. Last month, threatening graffiti was sprayed on the same wall and Mr Duddy's union flag was stolen from his garden. He holds the title of Coleraine District Master in the Orange Order and is also a member of the town council. 'Sinister threat' At the time of the previous attack on 11 August, police said they were treating it as a hate crime and the Orange Order said Mr Duddy was the fourth senior Orangemen whose home had been attacked over a three-week period in the area. Some of the graffiti daubed on the wall outside Mr Duddy's family home in Coleraine on Thursday night Speaking after the latest incident, the councillor said he viewed it as a "very serious and sinister threat". However, he said he would not be intimidated out of his home by whoever was behind the attacks. Mr Duddy added that he was committed to serving his constituents as a DUP councillor and was proud of his culture and role in the Orange Order. Police visited the councillor's house on Thursday night to record the incident. They have appealed for anyone with information about the attacks to contact them.Bristol theatre archive grant to save 'at risk' records 23 March Lucy Powell is the keeper at Bristol's Theatre Archives The University of Bristol's theatre archive is to receive a government grant to stop valuable records being lost forever. The Theatre Collection - one of the world's leading archives of British theatre - will get £25,179 from The National Archives. It will help identify items in the UK at risk, and ensure they are preserved. With the performing arts sector under pressure due to Covid, important records are said to be "in jeopardy". 'Urgent Situation' Professor Karla Pollman, dean of the faculty of arts at the University of Bristol, said she was grateful to The National Archives for awarding a grant in response to the "urgent situation". The money will help safeguard digital as well as analogue material from photographers, designers, actors and writers that is deemed in "immediate danger". She added: "The project has the potential to make a material contribution to the history of theatre and live art in Britain which might otherwise disappear." One of the many 'strongrooms' where archives are safely kept by the Theatre Collection The collection documents life on and off-stage and hopes to safeguard or re-home other vulnerable collections from the community. The grant of £25,179 will allow archivists to target collections under threat across the spectrum of British performance practice - from companies, individuals, and backstage professionals - so that they can be safely stored and recorded. A portrait of the actor Mrs Jordan, also known as Dorothea Jordan, which is already in the archive A total of 25 archives from across England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland have each received up to £50,000 from the fund. The government grants will offset some of the practical costs of keeping archives, such as storage, conservation, transport and expertise. Jeff James, chief executive and keeper at The National Archives, said: "We cannot underestimate the importance of this funding and the support it gives to the successful archives. "Records which were under threat will now be saved and preserved allowing future generations to research and learn from them."Lockdown bomb hoaxer targeted NHS, MPs and BLM protests By Tom Symonds 26 February The hoaxer's targets included UK hospitals during the first lockdown An Italian man in Germany has been sentenced to three years in prison for threatening to bomb NHS hospitals, Black Lives Matter rallies and UK MPs. Emil Apreda, 33, sent emails from Berlin demanding £10m worth of Bitcoin to not carry out the attacks. The National Crime Agency said he made his threats in the spring and summer of 2020 as the NHS struggled with Covid. Senior officers kept the threats from the public for fear of patients being scared into not attending hospitals. Apreda used encryption techniques and the dark web in an attempt to hide his identity, but police brought in behavioural, linguistics and cyber-crime experts to track him down. He sent emails to the NHS pretending to be a far-right activist linked to the neo-Nazi group Combat 18, but police believe that was just a ruse to instil fear. He was finally identified by German detectives and armed officers raided his home in Berlin on 15 June last year. 'Heightened anxiety' For the first time, the NCA has revealed details of the case, calling it "one of the most significant threats we've seen for some time" which took place at a time of "deep and heightened anxiety" in the UK. Tim Court, the NCA's head of investigations, said the content of the emails was "so threatening and so damaging" that it was only disclosed to a "very tight circle of people - and I mean very tight" within the police and government. Meanwhile, security at hospitals was quietly stepped up. Mr Court said the risks were both of loss of life and a loss of confidence in the NHS. "At the height of this, we were losing nearly nearly 1,000 people a day - and for six weeks we're trying to manage somebody who could have been planting a bomb in a hospital, somewhere in the UK." A particular concern was that many patients were on ventilators or oxygen at the time, and it would have been more difficult to get them out of a hospital in the event of a credible bomb threat. The extortion campaign started on 26 April when Apreda sent an email to the NHS, making his demand for Bitcoin and warning that he would send a bomb in a package to a hospital in the UK if he was not paid. This was followed by an identical email to an NCA control centre, followed by 16 more over six weeks. During that period, the death of George Floyd in the US and resulting protests in the UK prompted threats from him to blow up Black Lives Matter demonstrations. Threats were also made against Black Lives Matter protests Finally, as the fourth anniversary of the murder of Labour MP Jo Cox by a far-right activist approached, he emailed that he would kill MPs - but did not name any. Police behavioural and linguistics experts drew up a profile of the extortionist, who they decided was not from the UK. Police say further "technical leads" pointed to Germany. He was finally identified by LKA, the German CID. Jo Cox was the Labour MP for Batley and Spen Apreda had been issuing deadlines for payment after which he said he would attack, so the day before the anniversary of Ms Cox's death, German police moved in, blowing open the front door of his Berlin flat and arresting him. Police say he has background in computing, but they have discovered no links to Combat 18, despite his claims. The far-right group has been active in the UK in the past, but now exists mainly in the US and Germany. Apreda was charged and convicted of extortion in Germany, but the NCA said he could have faced terrorism charges if he had been brought to the UK. The NCA  said he had no links that they could find with Britain, and therefore extraditing him had not been possible. It denied Brexit had been a major factor.Polish election: Leader targets gay rights as threat to society By Adam Easton 8 October 2019 Poland has seen an increasing number of equality marches in 2019, including this one in Torun "We consider two communities fundamental, the family as one man, one woman and the children," said the leader of Poland's ruling Law and Justice party (PiS) at a recent convention. LGBT+ rights have become the single biggest cultural issue in Poland's election campaign ahead of Sunday's vote. In the eyes of Jaroslaw Kaczynski's national-conservative party and the Catholic Church, those rights are a threat to traditional Polish families and values. Mr Kaczynski likes to identify threats to Polish society - during the election campaign four years ago, he said Middle Eastern migrants might bring "parasites and protozoa" to Poland. This time around, according to Mr Kaczynski, the threat comes from LGBT+ people and from Europe, where families can have "two mummies or two daddies", he said. Jaroslaw Kaczynski has highlighted Poland's Catholic heritage in focusing on LGBT+ issues Poland's 1997 constitution states that a marriage is between a man and a woman . Civil partnerships, be they between heterosexual or same-sex couples, are not legally recognised. "Christianity is part of our national identity, the [Catholic] Church was and is the preacher and holder of the only commonly held system of values in Poland," he said. "Outside of it… we have only nihilism." Senior Catholic Church figures have gone further, most notably the Archbishop of Krakow, Marek Jedraszewski, who on numerous occasions has identified the "LGBT lobby" and "gender ideology" as the new threat to Polish freedom following the end of communism in 1989, calling it "totalitarian" and a "great threat to our freedom". Where Poland's main political groups stand on same-sex marriage Equality marchers faced taunts from nationalist protesters in Nowy Sacz in southern Poland on Sunday The couple who came back to fight for change In the beautiful, medieval city of Torun, birthplace of the astronomer Copernicus, chef Mariusz Godlejewski rejected the notion that he was a threat. During more than a decade living in Ireland, Mariusz married his long-term partner Bartosz before the couple returned to their homeland last year. "My husband and I have been together for 14 years. Who are we, two strangers living together? We are family as well," he said. "Coming back here I knew what I was getting in to. I knew that I will lose all the rights with my husband we gained in Ireland but we wanted to come and help our friends to make the change." Mariusz believes it is only a matter of time before things do change but finds the tone of political debate depressing. Last month, a professor from Torun's Copernicus University, Aleksander Nalaskowski, was suspended after he likened homosexuality to "the plague" and complained that gay men and women were demanding not only tolerance, but acceptance. Government-supporting circles argued his suspension was an abuse of free speech and he was subsequently reinstated. Police fired tear gas and clashed with anti-LGBT protesters in Bialystok in July 2019 Spread of equality marches in Poland Mariusz was organising the third equality march in Torun, in which more than a thousand people walked through the city guarded on both sides by helmeted riot police carrying shields. A police water cannon I saw parked in the road was not required but violence has broken out during equality marches in the cities of Bialystok, where gangs of angry young men attacked parade participants, and in Lublin, where counter demonstrators clashed with police and two protesters were arrested after they reportedly brought homemade explosive devices. Poland remains more socially conservative than many countries in Western Europe but attitudes to LGBT+ issues are changing. Opinion poll based on sample of 1,000 people 57% 55% 80% There are more and more equality marches, 32 this year compared to 13 last year. Most, like the one in Torun, are joyful, peaceful events. 'They have to be aware they are sinners' Underneath a statue of Copernicus in the city centre, a small counter demonstration gathered before the equality march. There were several members of the far-right National Radical Camp, holding their green and white flags emblazoned with a falanga sword, which is associated with fascism. There were also banners warning about how the "LGBT lobby" wants to teach pre-schoolers how to masturbate, above the slogan "Stop paedophilia". A small counter march in Torun assembled beneath a statue of Copernicus There was also a photo of an equality parade showing two male marchers holding a rainbow flag from behind, their bare buttocks pixellated. Some people held crosses and handed out white, plastic rosary beads before prayers were said for the souls of the equality march participants. "Everyone has the same rights. For example, they have the same right to marry. I can marry my girlfriend, they can also marry their girlfriends, but they want to marry the same sex," organiser and teacher Radoslaw Duch said. "We don't want to arrest them, we don't want to get rid of them. They have to be aware they are sinners. Me as a Catholic person, I want to show them a better path of their life," he added. If opinion polls are correct, PiS should win the October 13 election comfortably. Attitudes in Poland may be changing, but if Mr Kaczynski's party does win a second term, there seems little chance that homosexual couples will enjoy the same rights as their heterosexual neighbours any time soon.Deeside: Liverpool-based gang used lie detectors, threats and drug 'hotline' 11 September 2020 The judge described it as a "sophisticated operation" run from the Walton area of Liverpool Eighteen people have been jailed for their part in a gang that flooded north Wales with drugs. They were arrested in September 2019 as part of the largest operation of its type ever carried out by North Wales Police. A judge at Mold Crown Court described it as a "sophisticated operation", involving encrypted mobile phones, lie detectors and even a plot to attack a former gang member who had fallen out of favour. Police seized drugs with a street value of £2.1m. The reach of the gang, based in Liverpool, stretched to Aberdeen and Cornwall. It was an operation described as a classic example of a "county lines" conspiracy. The group behind the supply, led by Colin Jones, were violent and were specifically targeted by police due to the threat posed to public safety. Colin Jones and Richard Anderson met to exchange a white Mercedes car for cocaine in October 2018 Officers had spent nearly three years investigating the gang, right to the very top. Colin Jones, based in Walton in Liverpool, was described as a drugs wholesaler who rarely got his hands dirty. When he was arrested, police found he had nine phones, and two encrypted devices. He hired lie detector specialists to check out his colleagues. As well as selling drugs, he swapped them for sports cars. Anthony Stagg and Tony Stagg in Towyn to meet Colin Jones in August 2018 Colin Jones had a team of call handlers who answered what the gang called "the Echo Line". In a three-month period in 2018, the hotline took over 100,000 calls. Police estimated it was selling several thousand pounds of drugs a day. Drugs were also sent up and down the UK, sometimes in packages sent from local post offices in Liverpool. What is "county lines"? At one point the violence was turned on one of their former conspirators. Colin Jones and David Rawling were secretly recorded talking to an unknown hit man arranging an attack on Lee Murray. Officers stepped in and stopped the attack, but believed a gun would have been involved. 'Significant victory' Judge Niclas Parry spent three days sentencing the gang. He said they had controlled a significant portion of the drugs trade in Deeside, casting a blight on the community. Colin Jones was sentenced to 21 years in total with the other gang members given sentences from four to 15 and a half years. Police say it is a significant victory against the supply of drugs from big cities into north Wales - but it remains a fight that will continue in the months to come.Four bailed over stabbing in Wolverhampton city centre 27 January 2019 The attack happened near to The Outback Nightclub on Queen Street, Wolverhampton Four people arrested after a man was stabbed in a city centre have been released on bail. The attack happened near to The Outback Nightclub on Queen Street, Wolverhampton, at 04:22 GMT on Saturday. A 22-year-old man sustained a single stab wound to the back. West Midlands Police said two men, aged 18 and 19, and two 15-year-old boys, who were arrested on suspicion of wounding with intent, have been bailed. The victim remains in hospital in a serious but stable condition. The force added they believed it was a "targeted attack" with no threat to the wider public. Follow BBC West Midlands on Facebook , on Twitter , and sign up for local news updates direct to your phone .Russian cities targeted by mystery bomb threats 13 September 2017 The bomb scares spread to the heart of Moscow on Wednesday, including the central GUM shopping centre For four days running, towns and cities across Russia have been hit by a wave of bomb alerts. Dozens of schools, shopping centres, railway stations and public buildings have been evacuated. Tens of thousands of people have been affected. So far, all of the alerts have proved to be hoaxes and the public has been urged to remain calm. The source of the threats is unclear but one official suggested they had originated outside Russia. "There's reason to assume this was all organised abroad," the official in Chelyabinsk told Interfax news agency. On Wednesday, the bomb scares spread to Moscow, prompting the evacuation of the luxury GUM shopping centre near the Kremlin. In the capital alone, more than 50,000 people were caught up in the alerts, reports said. Muscovites milled around outside the GUM centre after it was evacuated Pro-Kremlin newspapers have pointed to a "major hacking attack", possibly from Ukraine. State TV said 205 companies and organisations had been targeted nationally. Other reports suggested the threats were made via scrambled internet connections and were difficult to source. One official was quoted as saying the evacuations were part of an anti-terrorist drill but that has not been confirmed. Four days of threats The hoax calls began on Sunday but the extent of the alerts only became clear by Tuesday: Police searches continued in cities across Russia (file pic) They continued to spread on Wednesday, with airports also targeted: Who is behind it? No-one is certain but the alerts appear to have come in the form of a pre-recorded voice message via internet telephony. One message received in the city of Ufa was broadcast on national TV. "An explosive device has been placed in the building. Evacuate the people, call the bomb squads. This is not a drill. Do you understand me?" A security source told pro-Kremlin tabloid Komsomolskaya Pravda that the hoaxes were the result of a cyber attack organised from Ukraine, although no evidence was given. An IT security specialist quoted elsewhere spoke only of a foreign hacking attack. The governor of Stavropol called it a "phone attack" that had come from abroad and one phone company spoke of an "international virtual operator". Russian military exercise raises tension There was some suggestion, too, that the source of the disruption may have been closer to home. An aide to the Russian defence ministry's inspector general was quoted as saying it was part of an anti-terror exercise. "For the first time since Soviet times, large-scale anti-terrorism exercises are being carried out in Russia, involving all government agencies responsible for state security," Oleg Ostrovsky told newspaper Argumenty i Fakty Prikamye. The report was later deleted, according to BBC Monitoring. Russia has been hit by jihadist attacks, including a bombing on the St Petersburg metro in April in which 16 people died. However, a former opposition MP, Gennady Gudkov, warned that if the current alerts really were the work of federal security officers, then "that is completely crap". Russia's military is due to start joint military exercises on Thursday with Belarus. The exercises, called Zapad-2017 (West-2017) will involve a reported 12,700 soldiers in Belarus and Kaliningrad. Some figures outside Russia have predicted many more soldiers may be involved.Manchester stabbing: Two people stabbed in Piccadilly Gardens 10 February 2020 Emergency crews were called to the scene just after 12:00 GMT Two people have been stabbed in Manchester city centre. Officers were called to reports of an assault near Morrisons supermarket in Piccadilly Gardens at 12:10 GMT. One man has been taken to hospital with injuries not thought to be life threatening and another was treated at the scene for minor injuries, a police spokesperson said. The force added it was thought to be a "targeted attack" and there was no threat to the wider community. No arrests have yet been made. Eyewitness Gemma Hepworth, 36, said there was "blood everywhere". "I came out and there were two men on the floor. Morrisons staff were coming out with bandages, and people were asking if we knew anyone who could perform first aid. "I offered my scarf and everyone was trying to help. Some people were crying." The stabbing took place at Manchester's Piccadilly Gardens A number of road closures are in place and members of the public have been asked to avoid the area. All Stagecoach bus services travelling through Oldham Street have been diverted, the operator said. First Manchester said on Twitter a number of its routes had also been affected. Bus routes have been diverted and a number of road closures are in place North West Ambulance Service was alerted at 12:08 and sent 10 vehicles and crew to the scene. Councillor Jon-Connor Lyons thanked Greater Manchester Police and other emergency personnel for their "rapid response". Here at Piccadilly Gardens with @patkarney and Cllr Sam Wheeler. Have just been briefed by @GMPCityCentre about this targeted attack. As usual, thank you for the rapid response from GMP and other services. This is a targeted attack. — Cllr Jon-Connor Lyons 🐝 (@JonConnorLyons) February 10, 2020 View original tweet on TwitterFour held over stabbing in Wolverhampton city centre 26 January 2019 The attack happened near to The Outback Nightclub on Queen Street, Wolverhampton A man has been left seriously injured after a stabbing in a city centre. It happened near to The Outback Nightclub on Queen Street, Wolverhampton, at 04:22 GMT. West Midlands Police said the 22-year-old victim sustained a single stab wound to the back. He is in hospital in a serious but stable condition. Two men, aged 18 and 19, and two 15-year-old boys, all from the city, have been arrested on suspicion of wounding with intent. All four remain in custody, the force said. Det Sgt Neil Bason, from Force CID, said: "We believe this was a targeted attack with no threat to the wider public, but we'll be deploying extra officers to the area to give reassurance over the weekend. "At present our inquiries are ongoing and officers are in the area carrying out CCTV and forensic investigations." Witnesses are asked to contact West Midlands Police.Man shot in stomach outside Hyde pub 18 November 2018 The man was shot in Hattersley Road at about 20:20 GMT A man has been shot outside a pub in Greater Manchester. Witnesses said two men were seen brandishing a gun and threatening people in Hattersley Road, Hyde, on Saturday evening. The 35-year-old victim left the scene and presented at hospital with a stomach wound.  His injuries are not life-threatening. Greater Manchester Police believed it to be a "targeted attack" and is appealing for witnesses. Det Insp Zoe Stapleton said: "We know incidents such as this will understandably cause concern but I want to reassure the public that we have launched a full investigation, "At this stage we believe this to have been a targeted attack with no further threat to any members of the public."Measles epidemic: 2015 eradication target under threat As the measles epidemic passes 500 cases in the Swansea area, European health officials are warning that a deadline to eradicate the disease by 2015 is likely to be missed. According to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, the UK has the second highest number of measles cases after Romania, according to data to the end of December. Dr Roland Salmon from Public Health Wales told Bethan Rhys Roberts on BBC Radio Wales that having the MMR vaccine is the only way to halt the spread of the illness. 4 April 2013MI6 'may be committing crimes in UK' Dominic Casciani @BBCDomC 16 December 2020 MI6 has its headquarters in Vauxhall, London MI6 agents and informants may be committing crimes in the UK, a watchdog has revealed. The Investigatory Powers Tribunal disclosed the ruling despite government attempts to keep the matter secret. It also said questions raised should be disclosed to campaigners, who have been asking for greater legal clarity over what the intelligence agencies can do. It comes a day after the intelligence services watchdog raised its own questions about some MI6 activities. Since 1994, MI6 - the UK's foreign intelligence service - has been able to authorise people that it recruits to help the UK overseas to commit crimes as part of its targeting of threats to the UK. That power has long-been dubbed the " James Bond clause " - but it does not explicitly permit criminal operations in the UK. Unprecedented legislation that clarifies how agencies recruiting undercover informants can authorise them to commit crimes is reaching its final stages in Parliament. The disclosure of crimes potentially committed by people supplying MI6 with intelligence has come amid a long-running court battle over whether such secret undercover activity can ever be legal. While the legal battle has revealed details of how MI5, the domestic security service, authorises crimes by its informants, Wednesday's disclosure by the Investigatory Powers Tribunal (IPT) is the first indication that MI6 may be doing the same. In the ruling, the IPT rejected secret submissions from the government to keep the entire matter behind closed doors. The disclosure came the day after the annual report of the Investigatory Powers Commissioner, the watchdog that oversees the secret agencies, revealed that one of MI6's agents overseas may have gone rogue and committed serious crimes. The report says that in 2019 the secret agency had recruited a potential agent overseas and had sought a standard authorisation from the foreign secretary for the individual to potentially commit crimes as part of their work for the UK. The report does not state which foreign secretary it was. "The Secret Intelligence Service [MI6] identified a risk that the agent may be involved in serious criminality overseas," said the report. "SIS did not encourage, condone or approve any such criminality on the part of their agent. "In their submission, SIS set out that they had secured the agent's cooperation on terms of full transparency about the activities in which the agent was involved. "It included some clear 'red lines', setting out conduct that was not authorised and would result in the termination of SIS's relationship with the agent." Six months later, when the authorisation had to be reviewed, it appeared that MI6 had concluded the asset had probably crossed those red lines - but they did not tell the foreign secretary, who had to sign off the continuing operation. "We concluded that the renewal did not provide a comprehensive overview of available information which we believe would have provided the Secretary of State with a fuller and more balanced picture," said the watchdog. "SIS immediately responded to these concerns by updating the FCO." Campaigners behind the legal action say both revelations prove the public are being kept in the dark. But ministers say legislation going through Parliament will provide clear safeguards for agents to commit crimes while undercover.Salford club attack: Man shot three times 25 November 2018 The victim had been at an event at Kingston Mill A man who was shot three times outside a club has survived the "targeted attack", Greater Manchester Police has said. The victim, believed to be in his 20s, had been at the Kingston Mill venue in Salford on Friday night before the "isolated incident", officers added. He was taken to hospital at about 05:30 GMT on Saturday, where he remains in a stable condition. His wounds are not believed to be life-threatening. Police have launched an attempted murder investigation and have appealed for anyone with information to contact them. Det Insp Ben Cottam said: "This was a well-attended club event and there are potentially a number of witnesses who may be able to assist with our enquiries. "I want to reiterate that this is believed to be a targeted attack and there is no threat to the wider community."If Russia targets allied launch platforms 'that's war' Retired Gen, Sir Richard Barrons, who led the UK's Joint Forces Command from 2013 to 2016, has hit back at a suggestion from Russia’s ambassador to Lebanon that any US missiles fired at Syria would be shot down. Barrons, whose role included advising on strategy on Syria as one of the chiefs of staff, said on the Today programme that if Russia target US "launch platforms" to "sink ships, sink submarines and shoot aircraft out of the sky, that's war". 11 April 2018 BBC News UK PoliticsAffordable homes 2020 target date 'under threat' 11 July 2013 The economic downturn has hit house building in Scotland The Scottish government's vision of providing affordable homes for all could miss its 2020 target date by several years, according to a report. The recession has seen a massive reduction in public and private funding for house building, Audit Scotland said. Supply of new properties is failing to keep up with demand. And it could be 20 years before enough new homes are being built to meet the projected increase in households. The spending watchdog said that, as the population continued to grow, the 2020 vision was "ambitious" and the government needed to clarify how it would work with councils and other partners in the sector to meet its targets. Budgets tightening The Housing in Scotland report was produced for the Auditor General and the Accounts Commission. Caroline Gardner, Auditor General for Scotland, said: "Housing is a significant national asset and the sector in Scotland is under increasing pressure. Budgets are tightening, while demand is increasing and fewer houses are being built." The report revealed that private sector house building has more than halved in recent years. And since 2005 local authorities and Registered Social Landlords (RSL), who are key to providing low rent homes, have built 14,000 fewer homes than research suggested were needed. Changes to the benefit system, an ageing population and the increasing number of single person households were creating further pressures on the sector. The report notes Scottish government funding for housing fell by around a quarter between 2008-09 and 2011-12 with further reductions to come. John Baillie, chair of the Accounts Commission, said: "Good housing is important for individuals and families but also for wider society.  It can support economic growth, promote strong, resilient communities and improve health. "Links between housing and other policy areas at both national and local level should be stronger, to help improve the impact that good housing can make to our communities." Responding to the report, a Scottish government spokesman said it had taken "decisive action" to improve housing in Scotland. 'Collapse in availability' He added: "We are investing nearly £900m over three years as part of our target of building 30,000 new, affordable homes over the lifetime of this parliament. "As this report recognises, we are having to deal with Westminster's cuts to our capital budgets, a difficult lending environment, and the UK government's welfare reform agenda - all of which add to the pressures that we face in delivering new affordable homes. The Scottish Federation of Housing Associations welcomed the emphasis placed by Audit Scotland on the provision of affordable public sector housing. Policy manager Susan Torrance said: "We are particularly pleased to see encouragement to improve transparency in the reporting of budgets and supply targets. "The challenges made by Audit Scotland to strengthen national and local housing strategies to improve supply and construction of homes to meet housing need are important." Gordon MacRae, head of policy at housing charity Shelter Scotland, said: "The report clearly shows that action is required now to meet the challenge of a collapse in availability of new homes and the spiralling demands of Scotland's ageing and increasingly single households. "To end Scotland's housing crisis for good, Scotland needs a clear housing strategy aimed at creating good quality homes for the country's 157,000 households stuck on council waiting lists."Bristol's artists get racist abuse for 'joyful' project 31 July 2020 The #WhoseFuture campaign was launched in mid-July across Bristol Black artists have been targeted with threats of violence and racist abuse following a campaign for social change. The women took part in the Rising Arts Agency's #WhoseFuture campaign where 370 billboards in Bristol were posted with art, photography and poetry. In a statement , the agency said a minority of people had targeted six artists as well as the agency. Avon and Somerset Police has confirmed it is investigating the reports made on social media to several individuals. 'Lives threatened' The campaign was launched in mid-July as a response to the worldwide Black Lives Matter movement. Founder, Kamina Walton, said the majority of abuse was aimed at one young, black female artist. The agency has not named her in order to protect her. "She is a mixture of extremely angry, upset and traumatised. "We knew there was potential for backlash but we had no idea it would be to the point where people's lives are being threatened," added Ms Walton. The posters have been put up around Bristol, including this one in Bedminster The agency also said it has received public support and its aim was to give a voice, not just to people of colour, but those who felt ostracised and excluded from the arts sector. "This campaign was about asking questions of the city but it was also saying, 'look at this talent that is on your doorstep that you're just not seeing'. "That is what has been so joyful about the campaign. For those artists, their self-esteem was through the roof and and it felt like a real celebration," said Ms Walton. The agency has said it will continue its work to encourage openness and honesty. Bristol City Council said in a statement: "Art is interpretive and therefore always draws different opinions. "While people may not agree, it is important conversations remain respectful."Pompeo: Iran threat included 'attacks on US embassies' US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said that the US ordered the killing of Qasem Soleinmani because it had "specific information" that Iranian threats targeting US facilities, including embassies and military bases. 10 January 2020 BBC News US & CanadaFrance terror attacks: Macron calls for EU free movement reform 5 November 2020 President Macron (right) said France was fighting "Islamist separatism, never Islam" France has stepped up security at its borders and is calling for a rethink on free movement in the EU after a spate of suspected Islamist terror attacks. President Emmanuel Macron said the EU's Schengen area, which allows people to cross borders freely, may need reform. A knife attack in Nice last week, which killed three people, was blamed on a Tunisian migrant who crossed into France from Italy in October. It was the second alleged jihadist attack in France in just over a month. France's security alert is at its highest level, with thousands of soldiers deployed to protect places of worship and schools, since teacher Samuel Paty was beheaded for showing cartoons depicting the Prophet Muhammad to his students. Police gunshots heard as three killed in Nice 'Islamist terrorist' stabbings President Macron has since sparked anger and protests in some Muslim-majority countries with his robust defence of France's values and freedoms that permitted the publication of cartoons. But he has rejected right-wing calls for greater safeguards to protect the country's principle of secularism, saying: "The situation does not warrant changing the constitution." And, in a letter to the Financial Times , he made clear France was fighting "Islamist separatism, never Islam". He accused the British newspaper of misquoting him in an article - which has since been removed from its website - suggesting he was "stigmatising French Muslims for electoral purposes". "I will not allow anybody to claim that France, or its government, is fostering racism against Muslims," he said in the letter to the editor. What did Macron say about border security? Speaking during a visit to the French-Spanish border, Mr Macron said he would be doubling police border patrol numbers from 2,400 to 4,800 "because of the worsening of the threat" of terrorism. He also said he would be unveiling proposals for strengthening border security within the EU at the next EU summit in December, which would include "intensifying our common border protection with a real security force at the external borders". Under the Schengen agreement, people within the EU are able to pass freely across borders without showing their passport. However, border checks have made a return in recent months because of the coronavirus pandemic. What do we know of the recent attacks? An elderly woman was beheaded and two other people were killed in a church in Nice on 29 October. Witnesses said they heard the attacker shout "Allahu Akbar" (God is Greatest). The suspect, who was shot and detained by police, was identified as Brahim Aioussaoi - a 21-year-old Tunisian man who had travelled to the Italian island of Lampedusa in September and crossed into France a few days before the attack. Earlier in October, Samuel Paty, a teacher in Conflans-Sainte-Honorine, north-west of Paris, was attacked and beheaded in the street by an 18-year-old Chechen Muslim. He had been the target of threats for days after showing cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad to pupils as part of a civics lesson. Depictions of the Prophet Muhammad are widely regarded as taboo in Islam , and are offensive to Muslims. The issue is particularly sensitive in France because of the decision by satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo to publish cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad. A trial is currently under way over the killing of 12 people by Islamist extremists at the magazine's offices in 2015 following their publication. France's Muslim community, which is Europe's largest, comprises about 10% of the population. Some French Muslims say they are frequent targets of racism and discrimination because of their faith - an issue that has long caused tension in the country.Newspaper headlines: "Scrapped migration targets" and jihadist attack threat By Andy Sully 24 November 2014 Immigration has become one of the biggest issues in British politics in recent years, and a story about migrant numbers again features heavily in the papers. The Daily Telegraph leads with Theresa May's admission that the government had been "blown off course" in its attempts to curb immigration to the UK, and was "unlikely" to reduce net migration figures to the under-100,000-a-year target it had set itself. The home secretary gave an interview to the paper confirming that the coalition was shelving its pledge to achieve the reduction by 2015. It was a pledge David Cameron had said was a "no ifs, no buts" promise, the Telegraph notes. Mrs May's assertion that the rising migration figures were partly as a result of the British economy's strength compared to EU rivals cuts no ice with her Labour counterpart, the paper adds. "Continually making and breaking grand promises on immigration is only undermining confidence in the entire system," Labour's Yvette Cooper says. The Daily Mail says the abandoning of the pledge has triggered a "furious political row" . It says recent figures show net migration is currently running at 240,000 a year. The Daily Express highlights former Conservative minister Peter Lilley's comments that: "Most people believe Britain is full - and they are right. We are already a nation of more than 60 million. We cannot take any more and have to shut the door." The Daily Mirror focuses on Ed Miliband's vow to "shut rogue job agencies that undercut wages and exploit workers." "He will stop big firms using rogue agencies to hire staff on the cheap," the paper says, "and ban job ­agencies recruiting only from abroad." It's a theme taken up by the Guardian's editorial which says agency working and zero-hours contracts have driven down pay levels to a level that encourages migration from low-wage economies. "Tackling Britain's hyper-flexible under-regulated labour market should be a priority, " it adds. The Daily Telegraph has a feature by Mats Persson of the think tank Open Europe. Mr Persson, whose ideas the prime minister is said to be considering, argues that in-work benefits - such as tax credits, social housing and access to the NHS - should not be "immediately available" to new arrivals from other EU countries. These benefits are a "taxpayer-backed-subsidy" enabling migrants from low cost countries to work at jobs most British workers would say they couldn't afford to take. Mr Persson illustrates his point by arguing that a typical Polish migrant can up his or her take-home pay by 95% by coming to Britain and claiming working benefits, but if those benefits were withdrawn, the same Pole would be earning 27% less than if he or she had stayed in his or her native country. The Express notes that former chancellor Kenneth Clarke has called the idea "discriminatory". 'Disquieting backdrop' Mrs May's pronouncements were not just on migration, but addressed the threat the UK faced from potential terrorism by jihadists. The Provisional IRA's campaign in mainland Britain left at least 115 people dead The Daily Mail puts a comment from a Whitehall official that an attack is "almost inevitable" , on its front page. Mrs May is to outline new anti-terror powers, the paper adds, including forcibly relocating terror suspects and barring Britons returning from Syria from entering the UK for two years. In her interview in the Daily Telegraph, the home secretary says, "Britain is facing the greatest terror threat of its history." The idea that Britain faces a worse threat than during the IRA's bombing campaign is a "disquieting backdrop ", the paper's leader column says. The Guardian focuses on another announcement Mrs May is expected to make: that insurance companies will be banned from reimbursing ransom payments. The measure is designed to "cut funding to barbaric terror groups" , the paper explains. In another story, the Guardian casts doubt on whether the US airstrikes in Syria are undermining support for Islamic State (IS) jihadists. The paper carries a series of interviews with Syrian opposition fighters who say support for IS is growing because of the bombing, both from civilians and armed insurgents. "All the locals here wonder why the US coalition never came to rescue them from Assad's machine guns, but run to fight Isis when it took a few pieces of land," says one Free Syrian Army commander. The Daily Star says that SAS "hit squads" are killing hundreds of IS jihadists in "a series of daring raids" . Kurdish fighters have enjoyed some success against IS militants in recent weeks The elite soldiers are using quad bikes to cross desert terrain and then attack the militants with sniper fire and heavy machine guns, it says. "Our tactics are putting the fear of God into IS as they don't know where we're going to strike next and there's frankly nothing they can do to stop us," the paper's "SAS source" tells it. The Times is one of many papers to features two former British soldiers who have joined Syrian Kurds to fight IS. The pair deny being mercenaries, but say they were motivated to stop the slaughter of civilians in a war of "good versus evil" . The paper notes British police are investigating reports that a 17-year-old girl from London may also be trying to join Kurdish forces. 'A lifetime of insecurity' "The young are the new poor" reads the Independent's stark headline. It refers to a report from the Joseph Rowntree Foundation which says that "the rise of part-time work and low-paid self-employment has been accompanied by a sharp increase in the number of under-25s living below the breadline". The Foundation says as many working families as unemployed ones now live in its definition of poverty, and young people are more likely to be poor than pensioners are . "Pensioners have benefited from targeted policies, seeing a sharp fall in poverty to a record low level: from once being the most likely to be poor, the over-65s now have the lowest poverty rate of any age group," the paper says. The paper continues that the study suggests: "That while employment was close to a historic high, millions of Britons were struggling to cope with a reality of insecure work and incomes which have fallen on average by 9% in the five years to 2013." It carries a case study of a 22-year-old from Sheffield who has a masters degree in clinical neurology, but was unable to find work in the field despite 174 interviews and now works as a cleaner. Rebecca Field tells the Independent that she still relies on her parents to top up her earnings, and may be forced to move back in with them. "There is a real lack of jobs. It's not just the graduates from this year competing for jobs, it's the graduates from last year," she tells the paper. In its editorial, the paper says that the problem is not "selfish oldies" but poorly paid and insecure work, coupled with a lack of affordable accommodation. "One alarming fact in the report is that most self-employed people earn markedly less now than they did five years ago. "This should disturb everyone, because the rapid rise in self-employment is constantly extolled as a good thing - the welcome liberation of the workforce from the old tyranny of office and factory life. "Now we can see that this new freedom is often a ticket to a lifetime of insecurity," the editorial says. Molten One man's image dominates Monday's front pages. With his diamond earrings, glamorous pop star girlfriend and, now, second Formula One world championship, it's unsurprising that Lewis Hamilton sports the widest grin humanly possible. "I Ham the Greatest", is the Daily Star's slightly tortuous headline , the paper noting that the "normally ice cool racing driver wept inside his visor" as he embraced his girlfriend Nicole Scherzinger. The Daily Mail has a quote box featuring Prince Harry's words to the British champion after the race . "Lewis, thank you very, very much for not making the British public sweat. You are an absolute legend. well done, mate," the Prince said. A rather overwhelmed Hamilton replied: "Woohooo! World Champion. Oh my God. I can't believe it. Thank you so much guys." The Sun notes his win puts Hamilton in the £100m earning bracket. "The F1 ace and his girlfriend... are primed to be the next celebrity super-couple," it adds. The Daily Mirror, with the editorial, "Lew beauty", makes a plea for the "speedster" to return to the UK from Monaco to "make a greater contribution to British society" . Sports writer Kevin Garside in a comment piece in the Independent waxes lyrical on the way Hamilton bested his only realistic rival for the crown this year, his team-mate Nico Rosberg. " If you are going to make a statement, make it a big one . "Hamilton rammed syllable by syllable the speculative pre-race pap about the pressure getting to him down the exhaust pipes of Rosberg. Pressure would play a part, Rosberg was right about that. He simply identified the wrong victim. "Hamilton handed down a textbook lesson in how to cope when the heat turns molten, delivering what he described as the best start of his career precisely at the point he needed it most, blazing off the grid 'like a rocket' to beat Rosberg into the first corner." Although he didn't know it, it was all over by then. Making people click Times - Israel to make Arabs "second class citizens" FT - Carlsen retains world chess crown Mail - Laurence Llewelyn-Bowen's £22-a-head winter "blunderland" Guardian - The real Michael Phelps scandalFrance teacher attack: Macron hails murdered ‘quiet hero’ 21 October 2020 Mr Macron paid tribute to the teacher at a memorial in Paris French President Emmanuel Macron has paid tribute to "quiet hero" Samuel Paty, the teacher who was beheaded last Friday. Mr Paty was targeted close to his school near Paris for showing cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad in class. His killer, 18-year-old Abdullakh Anzorov, was shot dead by police. Speaking at a televised memorial service on Wednesday, Mr Macron told viewers that France "will not give up our cartoons". The service was attended by the teacher's family and some 400 guests. The coffin was brought into the ceremony on the shoulders of a guard of honour and to the sound of the song "One" by the rock group U2. On top of the casket was Mr Paty's Légion d'Honneur, France's highest honour. It was posthumously awarded to Mr Paty. Mr Macron said Mr Paty had tried to teach his pupils how to become citizens. "He was killed precisely because he incarnated the Republic", Mr Macron said. "He was killed because the Islamists want our future. They know that with quiet heroes like him, they will never have it." Mr Paty had been the target of threats since he showed the cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad during a class on 6 October. The history and geography teacher had advised Muslim students to look away if they thought they might be offended. Depictions of the Prophet Muhammad can cause serious offence to Muslims because Islamic tradition explicitly forbids images of Muhammad and Allah (God). Rallies in Paris, Toulouse, Lyon and other French cities in support of Samuel Paty What is the latest in the Paty case? On Wednesday, prosecutors said Anzorov had paid two teenage students around €300 (£270; $355) to identify Mr Paty. The killer told the students he wanted to "film the teacher [and] make him apologise for the cartoon of the Prophet [Muhammad]", anti-terrorism prosecutor Jean-François Ricard said at a press conference. The students, aged 14 and 15, are alleged to have described Mr Paty, 47, to Anzorov and stayed with him for more than two hours outside the school until the teacher appeared, Mr Ricard said. The pair, who cannot be named for legal reasons, are two of seven people the French authorities are seeking to prosecute over the brutal attack. The prosecutor also said there was a "direct causal link" between the killing and an online hate campaign orchestrated against Mr Paty. The campaign was allegedly launched by the father of one of his pupils. The man, 48, who has been named in French media only as Brahim C, is accused of issuing a "fatwa" against the teacher. On Wednesday, Mr Ricard confirmed reports that Brahim C, who is also facing prosecution, had exchanged a number of text messages with Mr Paty's killer prior to the attack. Samuel Paty, a well-liked teacher, had faced threats for showing the cartoons He also posted videos denouncing Mr Paty after he showed the cartoons in two lessons about free speech earlier this month. But Mr Ricard said the father's anger and statements in the videos were based on "inaccurate facts" because his daughter had not been in the relevant lessons. Mr Paty's killer, Anzorov, was born in Moscow and his family is from Russia's Muslim-majority Chechnya region in the North Caucasus. He had lived in France since 2008.Emma Watson targeted by online trolls after UN speech 23 September 2014 Internet trolls appear to have made a threat to Emma Watson. A web page titled Emma You Are Next, featuring an image of the Harry Potter star next to a countdown, suggests the actress will be targeted. UPDATE: How the threat was a hoax and who was behind it The page also features the logo of 4chan, the site which is said to have hosted two recent leaks of naked celebrity photos. Jennifer Lawrence and Kim Kardashian are among those to be targeted. The threat was launched hours after Watson, 24, launched the HeForShe campaign in a speech at the UN in which she appealed to men to speak out over gender equality. "I was appointed six months ago and the more I have spoken about feminism the more I have realised that fighting for women's rights has too often become synonymous with man-hating," she said. "If there is one thing I know for certain, it is that this has to stop." Watson's first appearance as Hermione Granger was in 2001's Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone as an 11-year-old. She told UN delegates in New York that she started thinking about gender inequality as a child three years before hitting the big time. UN Women, a United Nations group looking at gender equality, also suggested that the global film industry doesn't do enough to represent women in films. Angelina Jolie's action roles included Lara Croft in Tomb Raider It said there had not been enough speaking roles for women, sexualisation is common and women have been under-represented in action and adventure movies. It found 23% of speaking characters in that genre were female. The study looked at films made in 11 countries, including South Korea, the US and India. The UK was singled out for doing a better job than some other countries by creating more speaking roles for women. Follow @BBCNewsbeat on Twitter and Radio1Newsbeat on YouTubeNew York Mayor Bill de Blasio targets income gap 'threat' 10 February 2014 The Democratic politician has called for a minimum wage hike and funding for pre-kindergarten programmes by taxing the wealthy. New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio has pledged to raise the minimum wage and issue ID papers to undocumented immigrants. Setting out the policies of his new administration in a State of the City address, Mr de Blasio took aim at the city's yawning inequality gap. The 52-year-old also wants to raise taxes on the wealthy to fund universal pre-kindergarten programmes. Elected in November, he is New York's first Democratic mayor in two decades. 'More success stories' In Monday's speech, Mr de Blasio said: "We understand that allowing the income gap to stretch further isn't simply a threat to those at the bottom but to every New Yorker." The married father of two chose a Queens community college to make one of the most important speeches of his young administration. It was a relatively low-key venue compared with the stylish new Brooklyn Nets arena where his three-term predecessor, Michael Bloomberg, gave his last State of the City address. "We want to ensure that New Yorkers aren't relegated to the ranks of the poor when putting in a full week's work," Mr de Blasio said of raising the minimum wage. "We will send a powerful signal to the people of New York, that we honour work... and that we are committed to making work pay." He also said his administration would help an estimated half a million undocumented New Yorkers out of a city of eight million residents. "To all of my fellow New Yorkers who are undocumented, I say New York City is your home too," he said, "and we will not force any of our residents to live their lives in the shadows." Of his plans to follow through on a central campaign pledge by delivering universal pre-kindergarten, Mr de Blasio said it would tax the wealthy not to "punish success" but to "create more success stories". Although the city council is controlled by Mr de Blasio's Democratic allies, the minimum-wage plan needs support from the New York state governor, Andrew Cuomo, to become law. The BBC spoke to New Yorkers in the Bronx to find out how they think a shift in policing will impact their lives Mr Cuomo is also a Democrat, but he is facing an election in November and has refused to raise taxes, instead proposing to fund universal pre-kindergarten out of the state budget. Later this week, Mr de Blasio will deliver another important speech, outlining his plans for the city's $70bn (£42bn) budget. The New York mayor has cheered liberal supporters with some of his stances early in his administration. Last week, he said he would not attend next month's St Patrick's Day Parade because of its ban on marchers who carry gay-pride signs. He would be the first New York City mayor in two decades to boycott the event. Mr de Blasio has also signalled a possible ban on horse carriages that carry tourists around New York City's Central Park, saying it is inhumane to the animals.Anti-terrorism barriers at Edinburgh Festival 26 July 2017 High security barriers are being installed in Edinburgh in a bid to stop terrorists driving vehicles into pedestrians. The temporary measure is being installed ahead of the Edinburgh International Festival and Fringe. Police Scotland said although there was no specific intelligence to suggest the events would be targeted, the UK terrorism threat remains "severe". The National Barrier Asset (NBA) system is provided by UK government. The Edinburgh International Festival and Fringe is the largest arts festival in the world, lasting for just over three weeks in August. A review of security has taken place following recent attacks in London and Manchester. Police Scotland and the City of Edinburgh Council submitted a request for the barriers, which will be paid for by the UK government. The NBA is a temporary deployed system including high security gates, portals and barriers, which are designed to prevent hostile vehicle attacks on key or busy crowded place locations. It is owned by the Home Office and its deployment around the UK is co-ordinated by Sussex Police, with their installation contractor H2S2. The NBA has been used extensively in the UK this year at other major events including Wimbledon and the European Cup Final in Cardiff.'Petrol bomb thrown' in Shrewsbury house arson 31 October 2015 A petrol bomb was believed to have been thrown at a house in an arson attack in Shropshire. A fire started in the garden of the property on Mary Webb Road in Shrewsbury between 00:30 and 00:40 GMT. No-one was injured but damage was caused to the property, West Mercia Police said. Insp Paul Mathison, from the force, said: "We believe this to be a targeted attack, with no wider threat to the public."Bomb-threat robber targets Peterborough bank 6 February 2012 A robber made off with thousands of pounds from a Cambridgeshire bank after claiming he had a bomb, police said. The man walked into the Co-operative Bank in Peterborough just before 13:00 GMT on Saturday and handed a note to a cashier saying he had a bomb. The man, who was carrying a small rucksack with a drawstring over his shoulder, told the woman to hurry. He was handed several thousand pounds, before walking out of the building. Det Sgt Rob Norman, from Cambridgeshire Police, said: "This man walked into the bank and handed the note to the member of staff, only speaking to ask her to hurry up, before calmly walking out with the money. Forensic tests "We know there were some other members of the public in the bank at the time who may not have been aware a robbery was taking place but may have seen the man responsible. "I would urge them, or anyone who was in the area at the time, to consider if they saw someone matching this description. "If so, they should contact police as soon as possible. Any information could be very important to this inquiry." It is thought the man walked briefly towards the nearby Beales department store before walking back towards the Park Road area. He is described as white, 5ft 8in to 5ft 9in tall, wearing a black woollen hat with a white stripe around it, a green combat-type jacket with the collar up and blue denim jeans. Officers are now carrying out forensic tests on the note handed to the cashier.